The Project Gutenberg eBook of Old times, by John Ashton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Old times
       A picture of social life at the end of the eighteenth century

Author: John Ashton

Release Date: May 16, 2023 [eBook #70769]

Language: English

Produced by: Chris Curnow, Christine P. Travers and the Online
             Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
             file was produced from images generously made available by
             The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OLD TIMES ***





[Illustration: Fashions for 1797]




OLD TIMES.




[Illustration: The Ballantyne Press

Ballantyne & Hanson

Edinburgh London]




OLD TIMES

A Picture of Social Life at the End of the Eighteenth Century

_COLLECTED, AND ILLUSTRATED FROM THE SATIRICAL AND OTHER SKETCHES OF
THE DAY_

BY

JOHN ASHTON

AUTHOR OF "SOCIAL LIFE IN THE REIGN OF QUEEN ANNE" ETC. ETC.

With Eighty-eight Illustrations

NEW YORK

SCRIBNER & WELFORD

743 & 747 BROADWAY

1885




PREFACE.


Of the period of which this book treats, there have been political
histories, and scurrilous books written anent the Royal Family, _ad
nauseam_: and the Diaries which have been published, bearing on this
time, deal only with the acts, and sayings, of the higher
classes--leaving the life of the vastly greater proportion of the
population--the middle classes--untouched. No better source of
information as to their mode of living, their amusements, the tattle,
and passing follies of the times, can possibly be found, than in the
Newspapers of the day; and I selected the commencement of the _Times_,
1 Jan. 1788, as the starting point of a picture of the Social Life at
the end of the Eighteenth Century.

The copies of the _Times_, however, are very imperfect,--nay, in some
years, totally missing--until 1793-1794--from which date they are
perfect; so that, when anything noteworthy occurred, I have drawn from
another source; and, to establish the undoubted authenticity of each
quotation, I have given the title of the Newspaper, with its date. The
daily Newspapers of those times were totally different to those to
which we are accustomed. The absence of Railways, Steamships, and
Electric Telegraphs, combined with a very high rate of Postage,
prevented the publication of all News, either from foreign or
provincial sources, except it were of real importance; and, as the
daily sheets must be filled, it followed, as a matter of course, that
a substitute was found in detailing the social life of the
Metropolis--and the daily Newspapers, which now give us the latest
news from all parts of the globe--had to be filled with social
paragraphs, anecdotal, satirical, or otherwise. They were as open to
correction, or contradiction, then, as now; so that we may put trust
in them; and when these paragraphs are collected, and somewhat
classified, they afford a view of the daily life of the period, such
as is utterly unattainable elsewhere. This collection must, of
necessity, be valuable to the student of those times, besides being of
great interest to the general reader.

The difficulty of obtaining contemporary illustrations, fitted for
this work, from books, or pictures, has compelled me to draw freely on
the satirical prints of the period--which are abundant, and perfectly
well suited to the purpose, if the reader will only bear in mind, that
they are sometimes a little exaggerated. Still, on the whole, they so
truthfully represent the manners, costume, &c., of the age, that they
could not be omitted; and that they are faithful reproductions of the
originals, I can guarantee, for I drew them all myself.

                                                  JOHN ASHTON.




CONTENTS.


                                                         Page

  INTRODUCTION                                              1

  MEN'S DRESS                                              51

  WOMEN'S DRESS                                            69

  NAVY AND ARMY                                            80

  SOCIAL ECONOMY                                          114

  GAMING, ETC.                                            166

  THE THEATRE                                             187

  OPERA AND BALLET                                        204

  MASQUERADES, CONCERTS, ETC.                             215

  MONETARY                                                232

  LAW AND POLICE                                          243

  POLITICAL                                               280

  ROYALTY                                                 293

  VARIETIES                                               297




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.


                                                         Page

  EDMUND BURKE                                             16

  THE PRINCE'S BOW                                         51

  TIGHT-LACING, 1788                                       51

  MACARONIS, 1789                                          53

  A JESSAMY, 1790                                          54

  A CHOICE SPIRIT--A BUCK                                  54

  A SMART, 1790                                            55

  A RAIN-BEAU                                              56

  JIMMY LINCUM FEADLE, 1791                                56

  A SCARAMOUCH                                             56

  APING THE FRENCHMAN                                      57

  NECK OR NOTHING--A BACK VIEW OF THE CAPE, 1792           57

  A SPENCER AND A THREAD PAPER, 1792                       63

  "A JEAN DEBRY" (MR. SKEFFINGTON)                         66

  FRENCH TAILOR FITTING JOHN BULL WITH A "JEAN DEBRY"      66

  A COTILLION, 1788                                        69

  FASHIONS FOR 1788                                        69

  INDOOR COSTUMES, 1788                                    70

  THE DUCHESS OF YORK                                      70

  THE DUCHESS                                              70

  FRAILTIES OF FASHION, 1793                               70

  THE HEIGHT OF FASHION, 1793                              70

  THE TOILETTE, NO. 1                                      71

       DO.      NO. 2                                      71

       DO.      NO. 3                                      71

  A SCARECROW, 1793                                        71

  "SHEPHERDS! I HAVE LOST MY WAIST" 1794                   72

  FOLLOWING THE FASHION, "ST. JAMES'S GIVING THE TON"      73

  FOLLOWING THE FASHION, "CHEAPSIDE APING THE MODE"        74

  CROPS                                                    73

  A LADY PUTTING ON HER CAP, 1795                          73

  CHARACTERS IN HIGH LIFE                                  75

  A MODERN BELLE GOING TO THE ROOMS OR BALLS, 1796         75

  WAGGONER'S FROCK, OR NO BODYS OF 1795                    75

  THE FASHION, DEC. 1795                                   76

  FASHIONABLE MODESTY, 1796                                76

  HIGH CHANGE IN BOND STREET, 1796                         76

  FASHIONS FOR 1797 (SEE FRONTISPIECE)                     78

  MY POLL, AND MY PARTNER JOE, 1796                        80

  BRITISH LADIES PATRIOTIC PRESENTS TO THE ARMY, 1793      95

  KIDNAPPING, OR A DISGRACE TO OLD ENGLAND                 99

  MODERN MODE OF BEATING UP FOR VOLUNTEERS                104

  HEROES RECRUITING AT KELSEY'S, 1797                     108

  INSTALLATION SUPPER, NO. 1                              114

           DO.         NO. 2, SIR F. JOHNSTON AND
           LADY, LORD BATHURST, MAJOR TOPHAM              114

  INSTALLATION SUPPER, NO. 3, SIR GEORGE YOUNG AND
           LADY                                           114

  INSTALLATION SUPPER, NO. 4, LORD AMHERST                114

           DO.         NO. 5, LORD SANDWICH, DR.
           BRILLAND, DR. PAIR                             114

  THE ASSESSED TAXES TAKING THEIR DEPARTURE               132

  JOHN BULL AND THE INCOME TAX                            133

  A PRETTY BAR MAID                                       135

  A LADY AT A CARD PARTY WHO DOES NOT PLAY, 1788          166

  GAMBLING, 1792                                          166

  A KICK UP AT A HAZARD TABLE, NO. 1, 1790                167

               DO.             NO. 2, 1790                167

  MODERN HOSPITALITY                                      168

  DIVIDING THE SPOIL, ST. JAMES'S, 1796                   177

           DO.        ST. GILES'S, 1796                   177

  FARO'S DAUGHTERS                                        177

  DISCIPLINE À LA KENYON, 1797                            179

  THE THEATRE                                             187

  MACKLIN AS "SHYLOCK"--HOLMAN AS "RICHARD"               190

  POPE AS "HOTSPUR"--JOHNSTONE AS "APOLLO"                190

  QUICK AS "SCRUB"--RYDER AS "FALSTAFF"                   190

  KEMBLE AS "HAMLET"--KEMBLE AS "LEAR"                    190

  MRS. BELLAMY--MRS. ABINGTON AS "LAPPET"                 190

  MRS. SIDDONS AS "ANDROMACHE"--MRS. JORDAN AS "VIOLA"    190

  MRS. BILLINGTON AS "ROSETTA"--MRS. MARTYR AS
    "EUPHROSYNE"                                          190

  MISS BRUNTON AS "JULIET "--MISS FIELD AS "ARIEL"        190

  AT THE OPERA--AT CHURCH                                 204

  THE CELEBRATED MADEMOISELLE G--M--RD                    211

  BALLET AT THE KING'S THEATRE-PANTHEON, 1791             211

  THE OPERATICAL FINALE TO THE BALLET OF "ALONZO
    E CARO"                                               212

  MDLLE PARISOT                                           213

  DURHAM MUSTARD TOO POWERFUL FOR ITALIAN CAPERS, 1798    213

  ECCLESIASTICAL SCRUTINY, OR, THE DURHAM INQUEST
    ON DUTY, 1798                                         214

  MADAME CORNELYS                                         217

  THE FEMALE COTERIE                                      221

  A COUNTRY CONCERT, OR AN EVENING'S ENTERTAINMENT
    IN SUSSEX                                             225

  SAVOYARDS OF FASHION, 1799                              226

  SEEN HOME BY THE WATCH, 1792                            243

  THE MONSTER CUTTING A LADY, 1790                        248

  RENWICK WILLIAMS, 1790                                  256

  PROTECTION FROM THE MONSTER                             258

  BOXING MADE EASY, OR HUMPHREYS GIVING A LESSON, 1788    274

  JEFFREY DUNSTAN--ORDINARY COSTUME                       292

  SIR JEFFREY DUNSTAN--COURT DRESS                        293

  TREATMENT OF LUNATICS                                   298


_Memorandum.--For binder's purposes some of the illustrations will not
be found on the pages named, but a few pages further on._




OLD TIMES.


Although this book does not pretend to be a history of the times of
which it treats, still, it will materially help the reader, if, at the
outset, some of the principal events which occurred during the period
are succinctly narrated.

We start with the year 1788--and one of the first items of importance
is the founding of the colony of New South Wales; for Captain
Phillips, on 28th January, landed the first batch of convicts,
consisting of 561 men, 192 women, and 18 children, also a military
force of 212 men. As soon as they were all on shore, Phillips ordered
the King's Commission to be read, and assumed the office of Governor.
Such was the modest foundation of our great Australian Empire. On the
same day at home, Lord George Gordon, of Protestant rioting memory,
was brought before the judges of the King's Bench, to receive sentence
on two libels, one against the Queen of France, and another on the
criminal justice of the country. His sentence for the former, was
three years' imprisonment, for the latter, two years, to pay a fine of
£500, and find security for his good behaviour for fourteen years. He
fled to Holland, was arrested, brought back, and lodged in Newgate. He
did not live to regain his liberty, but death set him free 1st
November 1793.

An all-absorbing topic of conversation in this year was the trial of
Warren Hastings, for his conduct whilst Governor-General of Bengal.
The trial commenced on the 13th of February, and it took place in
Westminster Hall, which was fitted up with a throne and canopy, having
the woolsack for the Lord Chancellor in front. On either side the
throne was a private box, one for the use of the King, the other for
the Queen: the King never used either throne or box, but, when he went
to the trial, he went _incognito_.

There were seats covered with green baize for the accommodation of
members of the House of Commons, but all the rest of the hall was
glowing with red baize. Boxes were also provided for the Ambassadors
and _Corps Diplomatique_. The grand show commenced at eleven A.M. with
the entrance of the committee appointed to manage the impeachment, all
of them in full dress, followed by Burke, who headed the members of
the House of Commons.

Hardly had they taken their seats when a buzz of excitement filled the
hall, for no one less than the Queen, attended by all her daughters,
entered. She did not go to the royal box, but sat in part of the Duke
of Newcastle's Gallery. This attracted the attention of all, until the
coming in of the peers, including the judges, and the Bishops, the
string of Dukes being closed by the Prince of Wales (as Duke of
Cornwall), and the Dukes of York, Gloucester, and Cumberland. Lord
Thurlow, the Lord Chancellor, came last. The peers all wore their
robes and collars, the robes of the royal dukes being borne by pages.
Then the Chancellor's mace-bearer cried "Oyez, Oyez, Oyez," and
notified to all, that Warren Hastings had come to take his trial, and
that his accusers might come forth and make good their charges against
him. The Lord Chancellor addressed the prisoner, and told him to be
prepared with his defence, to which Hastings replied, "My Lords, I am
come to this high tribunal equally impressed with a confidence in my
own integrity and in the justice of the court before which I stand."
As this trial will not again be mentioned, I may state the fact, that
it lasted seven years and three months, and ended in his acquittal,
17th April 1795.

Another remarkable event happened in this year, for on 31st January
there died at Rome, at the age of sixty-seven, the young Pretender,
Prince Charles Edward Louis Casimir Stuart, grandson of James II.;
and, with him, died all hope for the Jacobite party, for he left
behind him but one natural daughter, on whom he conferred the empty
title of Duchess of Albany. It is true that he left his pretensions to
the throne of England to his brother, Cardinal York, but all this
Prince did to claim regal honours was to strike a medal, on which he
styled himself Henry the IXth. He knew there was no use in continuing
the struggle, so accepted a pension from George III., which was paid
him until his death.

There is little worth chronicling until we come to the (to Englishmen)
most painful event of the year, namely, the King's illness. In July
his physicians remarked symptoms in him which gave them grave concern,
but he visited Cheltenham, and improved in his health. In October,
however, rumours began to get about that all was not well. The
_Morning Post_ of 30th October mentions that "On 28th His Majesty
complained of a pain in his bowels, and by the advice of his
physicians, and the rest of His Majesty's attendants, he is not
expected to leave Windsor for the course of a week or a fortnight."
Next day we hear that "the chief symptom is said to be a swelling in
the legs." Then news is brought, that on the 4th November he had a
relapse; on the 7th he is reported better, though, as a matter of
fact, he was delirious at dinner on the 5th. On the 9th they say he is
better; on the 10th he is MUCH BETTER, and HOPES ARE ENTERTAINED OF
HIS RECOVERY. The bulletins of the 11th are vague; that of the 12th
reports that he "was not better," and the newspapers of the 13th
openly speak of a Regency. In the _Morning Post_ of November 14th it
plainly states that "his mental faculties were more deranged." Then
his physicians quarrelled amongst themselves as to his treatment, and
wrote daily contradictory bulletins, until Dr. Willis took his patient
under his sole charge, with good effect. And so ends 1788.

       *       *       *       *       *

1789 opens with a great frost, one of the heaviest on record. It
commenced on the 24th November 1788, and continued, with one
intermission (from December 24th to December 26th) until 13th January
1789. On 10th January the Thames at Irongate--which is below London
Bridge, by the Tower, was frozen over, and several booths were erected
on the ice. The day previously an ox was roasted whole, and eagerly
bought by the people who were skating and sliding. The _Annual
Register_ thus describes the sight:--"The scene on the Thames is very
entertaining; from Putney Bridge upwards, the river is completely
frozen over, and people walk to and from the different villages on the
face of the deep. Opposite to Windsor Street booths have been erected
since Friday last, and a fair is kept on the river. Multitudes of
people are continually passing and repassing; puppet shows,
roundabouts, and all the various amusements of Bartholomew Fair are
exhibited. In short, Putney and Fulham, from the morning dawn till the
dusk of returning evening, is a scene of festivity and gaiety. On the
12th a young bear was baited on the ice, opposite to Redriffe
(Rotherhithe), which drew multitudes, and fortunately no accident
happened to interrupt their sport." The outward-bound vessels at
Deptford and Gravesend cleared out with all despatch, lest they should
be caught in the ice and detained or damaged.

The usual royal gift of £1000 to the poor of London was this year not
forthcoming, so the Prince of Wales ordered that sum to be given from
his own treasury. He also sent large sums to the poor of Edinburgh
and Brighton.

A Bill to make the Prince of Wales Regent had been introduced in both
Houses of Parliament at the latter end of 1788, but was negatived in
each; in the Commons by 251 to 178. There had been great squabbling
over this Bill, especially between the rival leaders, Fox and Pitt;
the former asserting that the Prince of Wales had an _absolute right_
to succeed to the Regency, and the latter would only admit that he had
an _irresistible claim_.

But the King did not get better, and something must be done, yet it
was not thought fit to invest the Prince of Wales with altogether
regal powers: there must be some limitation. Therefore Pitt wrote to
His Royal Highness, detailing the plan intended to be pursued, which
was, that the Queen should have the care of the King's person, and the
disposition of the royal household, by which means she would enjoy the
patronage of 400 places, amongst which were the offices of Lord
Steward, Lord Chamberlain, and Master of the Horse: but the Prince
should have no power of granting any office, reversion, or pension,
for any other term than during the King's pleasure, nor might he
confer any peerage.

This, no doubt, was prudent, but was extremely distasteful to the
Prince, who wrote a dignified remonstrance to Pitt, at the end of
which, however, he consented to accept the terms, being convinced of
the evils which might arise were there no Regency. Fifty-five peers,
together with the Dukes of York and Cumberland, signed a protest
against the limitations, but the Commons cared but little for it. They
went on with their work, and, on the 12th February, sent up the Bill
to their Lordships for consideration; and they were debating it when
the proverb of "There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip" was
fulfilled. On the 19th February the Lord Chancellor announced to the
House that the physicians reported that the King was rapidly
recovering from his malady. On this the House adjourned, and
practically no work was done, either by Lords or Commons, for three
weeks.

On 27th February the prayer for his recovery was discontinued, and, in
its stead, a form of prayer, and thanksgiving for his restoration to
health, was ordered to be read in all churches and chapels throughout
England and Wales. So completely had he recovered, that he ordered
Parliament to be opened by Commission, which was done on 10th March.
The 23rd April was appointed for a general thanksgiving, and his
Majesty, accompanied by the Queen and the Royal Family, went in solemn
state to Saint Paul's, to render thanks to the Almighty for His great
mercy.

The following account is much condensed from the report in the
_Morning Post_ of 24th April 1789:--"They started early, for,
precisely at eight o'clock in the morning, the first carriage that led
the procession reached St. Clement's Church in the Strand. After the
usual state pioneers, came the members of the House of Commons,
followed by the peers according to their several degrees, then the
Archbishops, and the princes of the blood royal, after whom came the
Prince of Wales, whose equipage outshone all others. Their Majesties'
Household came next, and lastly their Majesties themselves.

"The Queen seemed inexpressibly happy: the loud huzzas, which from
every quarter rent the air, testified to her, that _he_ who was
dearest to her was dearest to the people.

"The King, as if impressed by the weight of the obligation which he
owed to Heaven for his recovery, and full of the religious solemnity
with which he was going, _publicly_, to acknowledge that obligation to
the Almighty, seemed to be unusually grave and silent; and behaved, at
this first appearance in public since his recovery, in a manner which
filled the spectators with reverence and awe.

"His Majesty appeared to be much reduced in point of size, but he
looked as if in perfect health."

It was a quarter-past three when the procession, on its return,
reached Temple Bar, and it was noted that the King looked more
cheerful, whilst the Queen was in high spirits.

London was, of course, brilliantly illuminated at night.

This is the principal event of the year, and with it we will close
1789.

       *       *       *       *       *

As far as England, and its social economy, is concerned, 1790 is very
barren. In France, there was the commencement of that dreadful
revolution which terrorised all Europe, yet strangely enough all
allusion to France was omitted in the Royal Speeches to Parliament,
either on 21st January or 26th November.

The navy sadly wanted manning, so much so that a proclamation was
issued for encouraging seamen, and landsmen, to enter themselves on
board His Majesty's ships of war; that officers on foreign stations
should join their respective corps, and recalling, and prohibiting
seamen from serving foreign princes, and states. This was all very
well, for the fleet was in urgent need of men, owing to the number of
ships being put in commission, and ordered to be got ready for sea
with the greatest expedition: for instance--

  At Deptford, 3;
  " Woolwich, 3;
  " Chatham, 3;
  " Sheerness, 3;
  " Portsmouth, 10 (one 100, and another 98 guns);
  " Plymouth, 7 (one 100 another 80 guns);

besides others which were expected to be commissioned in a few days.

Ordinary means were not sufficient to provide men, and resort was made
to impressment, a mode of obtaining seamen which is of ancient
practice. In 1378 a statute of 2 Richard II. speaks of it as being
well known, and so it must have been, for the first commission for its
use was issued 29 Edward III., 1355. In 1641, Parliament declared the
practice illegal, either for the land or sea service; but this has
always been ignored when the necessity for seamen arose. It has been
regulated by Parliament even so lately as 1835, when, by the statute 5
and 6 William IV., compulsory service is restricted to five years.

How should we feel if some day, in reading our morning paper, we
should come across such a passage as the following:--"A very hot press
took place in the river Thames, and at all the outports"?--Would you
like to know what a "hot press" means?--then learn from the following
excerpts from the _St. James's Chronicle_, May 4-6, 1790:--

"The report of the number pressed in the river on Tuesday night was
delivered to the Lords of the Admiralty yesterday morning, which
amounted to about 1500 taken in Wapping, and in Southwark, &c., more
than 600; amounting in the whole to upwards of 2100 men, besides those
at the different seaport towns, reports of which were not received."

"Four tenders went down the river yesterday morning, crowded with
impressed men, to be shipped on board a vessel of war lying in
Long-reach, ready to receive them. The same tenders were expected up
again with the return of the tide, upon the same errand."

_Extract of a letter from Chatham, May 5._--"Yesterday morning,
between six and seven o'clock, an express arrived from the Lords of
the Admiralty to Commodore Pasley, at this port, containing impress
warrants: accordingly, a great press commenced about twelve o'clock
last night, both in this town, Rochester, &c. &c., and on the river
Medway, when many persons were taken, four of whom were lodged in the
guardhouse in the yard, and this morning sent on board the 'Scipio,'
of 64 guns, lying as guardship at this port, and commanded by
Commodore Pasley. A great press likewise commenced last night at
Sheerness."

"In consequence of the press warrants, stocks felt a most
extraordinary depression yesterday; the Consols opened at 76, and
fluctuated from that price to 75-1/4 until very nearly three o'clock."

This then, was a "hot press"--but very little was ever said about it,
except a passing notice. The impressed men themselves accepted their
fate as inevitable, and, according to the testimony of an old seaman
whom I once knew (himself a pressed man), he assured me that, after
the first shock was over, they set to work with a will, and did their
duty as well as the volunteers. There were supposed to be exceptions,
such as apprentices, who were exempt, but I fear, when once in the
hands of the pressgang, it was a very poor chance of any one's getting
off.

A social note worthy of being recorded, in this year, was that a man
named John Frith, lieutenant of the second battalion of Royals, threw
a stone at His Majesty's coach. He seems to have done no harm, and was
evidently a lunatic, for no one in their senses would have endeavoured
to injure a king who was just then in the zenith of his popularity.
That he was insane the jury thought, for, on his trial for high
treason on 21st May, he was acquitted as being of unsound mind, but he
was put under safe watch and ward in Newgate, and only liberated on
11th December 1791, on bail being given to take proper care of him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The year 1791 is remarkable for its uneventfulness, nothing of
national importance occurring during the twelve-month. Impressment
still went on, as we see by the _St. James's Chronicle_, April
16-19.--"Friday night the press in the Thames, and on both sides the
river, was the warmest that has been at all since press warrants were
last issued. No fewer than eleven gallies were rowing about between
London Bridge and Deptford. Every one of His Majesty's frigates and
sloops on Channel service, as well as those in the North Sea and on
the Irish coast, have received orders to proceed upon the impress
service. The smaller vessels, as soon as they have procured forty
seamen each, are to deliver them over to the receiving ships at
Spithead and the Nore."

In 1787 a society was formed in England having for its object the
suppression of slavery, under the auspices of Granville Sharpe,
Clarkson, and others, and Mr. Wilberforce (by whose untiring efforts
its downfall was at last obtained) joined it. On the 18th April 1791,
the House of Commons resolved itself into a committee "to consider of
the African slave trade." Wilberforce made an eloquent speech, in
which he depicted the horrors of the trade. Among other barbarities he
mentioned the whipping, and holding red-hot coals, to the mouths of
those (in order to compel them to eat) who were desirous of putting an
end to their existence, by starving themselves to death; and, to prove
the preference given by those unhappy creatures of death to slavery,
he quoted part of the evidence, which told how they took every
opportunity of leaping overboard, and that, in the agonies of death,
when drowning, they would hold up their hands for joy in having
escaped from their tormentors.

He mentioned many cruelties which had passed unpunished, and
particularly one, which was committed by a master upon his female
slave, a girl about six years old, by cutting her mouth from ear to
ear; he showed how injurious the slave trade was to our mercantile
navy, quoting from the muster rolls of Liverpool and Bristol, that in
one year, out of 12,263 seamen employed in the slave trade, 2643 had
died.

After many other arguments, he concluded with a motion, "That the
Chairman be directed to move for leave to bring in a Bill for
preventing the further importation of African negroes into the British
colonies and plantations."

The debate was continued, and adjourned until the next day--when the
battle _pro_ slavery or its abolition waxed fierce; but when it came
to a decision, the numbers were--for the motion, 88; against,
163--majority against the abolition, 75.

       *       *       *       *       *

1792 opened, as we would fain have our financial years open
now-a-days, with an increase of revenue over the preceding year of
£300,000, and a surplus of more than £900,000, besides paying the
annual million in reduction of the national debt. Pitt repealed
£200,000 of burdensome taxes, added £400,000 to the million to
extinguish the debt, and discreetly kept the balance in hand for
eventualities. Trade had vastly increased, as we may see from the
following figures:--In 1783 the exports were valued at £14,741,000;
and, in 1791, they had risen to £20,120,000.

On 2nd April, the House of Commons being in Committee, Mr. Wilberforce
again brought forward the question of the slave trade, and, after an
eloquent speech, wound up with the motion:--"That it is the opinion of
the Committee, that the trade carried on by British subjects, for the
purpose of procuring slaves from Africa, ought to be abolished." After
a debate, Mr. Secretary Dundas moved as an amendment, to insert the
word "_gradually_" immediately before the word "abolished."

This was carried by a majority of 68, and the motion, so altered,
being put, the numbers were--Ayes, 230; Noes, 85--majority for the
motion, 145. The Chairman was then ordered to move the House for leave
to bring in a Bill, pursuant to the said resolution.

England could not but be affected by the French Revolution. At the
commencement of the movement there was some sympathy shown by the
Whigs to a people who were struggling to free themselves from the
trammels of despotism, but that sympathy rapidly grew cold, and faded,
on witnessing the excesses committed by the people of Paris, and some
other large cities, until the capture, and imprisonment of the Royal
family, turned it to absolute loathing, and hatred.

There was great uneasiness throughout the country as to whether the
tide of anarchy might not reach us, especially as numbers of fugitives
were daily reaching our shores. Take, for example, two instances
quoted in the _Annual Register_, both of the date 12th September:--

"_Southampton._--One Ayland, a fisherman of Hamble, a village about
seven miles from Southampton, was fishing for lobsters on the coast of
France on Thursday last, and had taken in about half his cargo, when
he espied two boats full of men, seemingly in great distress; on which
he bore down, and received them on board. They had swam to their boats
to get away from the coast, and many of them were much bruised and
pelted with stones by others on shore. They begged the fisherman to
land them somewhere in England, to prevent their being murdered; which
he promised to do, and offered them subsistence till he had completed
his lading. They represented the danger of being intercepted, if he
did not immediately proceed to sea, and offered him any sum he should
ask, to land them as soon as possible. He waived his own interest, set
sail, and landed them at the above village; but with a spirit of
humanity, which does honour to human nature, he absolutely refused any
reward whatever, although he had not completed his fishing, which is
the maintenance of his family."

"_Lewes._--Upwards of 500 unfortunate emigrants were, last week,
landed on our coast, who have had the fury of the elements to contend
with, after escaping that of their countrymen. The Brighton packets,
heavily laden with them, were driven by the winds far eastward off
their usual track, and with difficulty made Hastings, Pevensey, and
Eastbourne. At the former place, on Wednesday morning, 76, all
ecclesiastics, came on shore, among whom were the Bishop of
Auvranches, the Dean of Rouen, and several other dignitaries. The
Bishop with great difficulty escaped from Auvranches by the assistance
of one of his grand vicars, who, with domestics, accompanied him to
Rouen, where they were for some days concealed. The populace having
again discovered them, they were again obliged to travel on foot, in
disguise, to Dieppe. They arrived in the night, took refuge a few
hours in an hotel; and, at the time appointed for the departure of the
packet, ran to the sea side, and, it providentially being high water,
were enabled to get out of reach of the rabble, who, in one minute
after, pursued them to the shore."

Take again an extract or two from the _St. James's Chronicle_ of
11-13th September 1792. "Between daybreak and eight o'clock yesterday
morning, thirteen broad-wheeled waggons, crowded with _French
emigrants_, passed through the Borough. During the night, and the
whole of yesterday forenoon, waggons, carts, and chaises, and
carriages of almost every other description, continued arriving in
town with emigrants, by way of Westminster, Blackfriars, and London
Bridges."

"It is a known fact, that upwards of _forty thousand French_ men,
women, and children, are at this moment in England: two-thirds of them
of the lowest class, who, taking advantage of the convulsed state of
their native country, come over under the plausible title of _exiled
aristocrats_."

"There are three powerful reasons why the very great number of
arrivals here from France should excite the immediate attention of
Government. One, that it may occasion a rapid rise in the price of
provisions, already at a height that occasions much complaint among
the lower orders of people. Second, lest under the appellation of
fugitives, a multitude of insidious and evil-designing persons should
intrude themselves, with the intention of raising similar disturbances
in this kingdom. Third, lest it should be the means of introducing a
great number of rascals, thieves, and villains, who are always
cowards, and cannot have principle enough to take any side; these,
therefore, are the first to run. An inundation of them, added to the
bad among our own people, might not only render private property very
precarious, but even prove dangerous to the state."

The Government was fully alive to this great influx of Frenchmen, and
the possible effect it might have on the people of England; so they
introduced, and passed, the "Act for establishing Regulations
respecting Aliens arriving in this kingdom, or resident therein, in
certain cases," 33 Geo. III. cap. 4. After the preamble, the gist of
which has been given, this Act enacts that all masters of vessels are
to give to the officer of the Custom, at the port of arrival, a
written declaration specifying the names, &c., of foreigners on board.
All aliens arriving after 10th January 1793 were to give to the port
officer of the Customs a written declaration of their names, rank, &c.
If they failed in so doing, they were to depart out of the realm, or
be transported for life. The officer of Customs had to furnish them
with a certificate, and, if they wished to change their abode, they
were to have a passport, which they were to show, or be committed for
trial. They must also depart from the realm when ordered by His
Majesty's proclamation, &c. &c. &c.

[Illustration: Edmund Burke.]

This was a somewhat severe ordinance, but as far as I know, it was
never acted on, for the French _emigrés_ were a quiet, law-abiding
people, thankful for the refuge they had received. It was during the
debate on this Bill that Burke made his historical _coup de theatre_,
the dagger scene in the House of Commons. I quote from the _St.
James's Chronicle_ 27-29th December 1792:--Burke _loquitur_. "It had
been declared by a noble Lord (Granville) in another place, that there
were known to be _nineteen assassins_ in this country with daggers
for the extirpation of kings--but it had been said that nineteen were
of no consequence; he thought differently, for there were in that
number seven more than necessary to destroy the whole Royal family;
the number to him was alarming, for he knew not how many apprentices
those murderers might have, nor how many encouragers in this country;
the knowledge of nineteen French murderers having arrived, was a full
justification of the present Bill. He thanked His Majesty's Ministers
for having brought it forward; it might prevent the arrival of
nineteen times nineteen of those monsters, and it might counteract the
intentions of that Englishman who had ordered the manufacture of 5000
daggers at Birmingham--how many for exportation, or how many for home
consumption, he knew not. He had, however, strong reasons to believe
that they were intended to introduce _French fraternity_ into the
bosoms of Englishmen--to introduce murder and desolation, for '_there!
there!_' exclaimed Mr. Burke, _throwing a dagger upon the floor of the
House_, 'is the _fraternity of freedom_; that is the fraternity they
wish to plunge into the heart of our Sovereign; into the heart of
every virtuous Englishman who was loyal to his King, or worshipped his
God,'" &c. &c.

This rodomontade was only provocative of mirth, and it is said that
Sheridan asked--"You have thrown down the knife--where is the fork?"
which convulsed the House with laughter.

       *       *       *       *       *

1793 opened gloomily with the trial, sentence, and decapitation of
Louis XVI. (sentenced 17th January, beheaded 21st January); and our
national sympathy towards the martyred King was shown by an order for
a general mourning, which it was hoped would be universal. "As our
Court has ordered an etiquette mourning for Louis XVI., there can be
little doubt that the people will, as one man, clothe themselves in a
garb expressive of their detestation of his murtherers."

Our relations with France had been very strained, for some time past,
and war had long been expected. In December 1792 a proclamation had
been issued, embodying and calling out the militia. Vessels were being
hurriedly equipped, and commissioned, and nobody was surprised, when,
on 1st February, Parliament received a message from the King,
informing his people that M. Chauvelin had left this country, and that
there was an urgent necessity for augmenting the sea and land forces.
The number of French in England became a source of uneasiness, and an
Order of Council was issued on 2nd February, directing all aliens,
save such as were excepted by the Alien Act, to reside within fifty
miles of the standard on Cornhill, and ten miles from the sea coasts,
and dockyards.

The French had already begun hostilities, by laying an embargo on all
British shipping in French ports, and, on 5th February, we retaliated
by acting in the same manner; but the terms were not equal, for there
were but six, or eight, French vessels in our ports, whilst it was
reckoned that the French had got hold of over 1000 of our seamen. But
sailors were forthcoming to man the fleet, for we read, under 7th
February, that "Upwards of 2000 sailors entered the Royal Navy last
week."

On 11th February, the King sent the following message to Parliament:--

"George R.--His Majesty thinks proper to acquaint the House of
Commons, that the Assembly now exercising the powers of Government in
France have, without previous notice, directed acts of hostility to
be committed against the persons and property of His Majesty's
subjects, in breach of the law of nations, and of the most positive
stipulations of treaty, and have since, on the most groundless
pretensions, actually declared war against His Majesty and the United
Provinces; under the circumstances of this wanton and unprovoked
aggression, His Majesty has taken the necessary steps to maintain the
honour of his Crown, and to vindicate the rights of his people; and
His Majesty relies with confidence on the firm and effectual support
of the House of Commons, and on the zealous exertions of a brave and
loyal people, in prosecuting a just and necessary war, and
endeavouring, under the blessing of Providence, to oppose an effectual
barrier to the farther progress of a system which strikes at the
security and peace of all independent nations, and is pursued in open
defiance of every principle of moderation, good faith, humanity, and
justice.

"In a cause of such general concern, His Majesty has every reason to
hope for the cordial co-operation of those Powers who are united with
His Majesty by the ties of alliance, or who feel an interest in
preventing the extension of anarchy and confusion, and in contributing
to the security and tranquillity of Europe.

                                                  G. R."

The Government was determined to do nothing by halves, and, as the law
of nations had not yet condemned the practice, they (on the 12th
February) caused to be issued, by the Admiralty, letters of marque,[1]
and reprisals against the French shipping--whilst pressgangs scoured
the streets and boarded all vessels for seamen. As, for instance (16th
February), "A press broke out in the river yesterday morning, all the
seamen were taken from the colliers, and the gangs were very
successful." And every means were taken to get sailors to volunteer,
vide the following extract out of a letter from Rochester, 15th
February:--"Three guineas are given to an able-bodied seaman, two
guineas to an ordinary seaman, and one guinea to a landsman (above the
King's bounty), to those who shall enter within a month in this city;
being the voluntary generosity of the Mayor and corporation here." And
this example was followed by many other corporations.

          [Footnote 1: Power, license, or extraordinary commission,
          granted by a State to its subjects, to make reprisals at sea
          on the subjects of another, under pretence of
          indemnification for injuries received.]

War being declared, preparations for it were carried on with the
utmost vigour. The Duke of York, colonel of the Guards (afterwards on
12th April made general), addressed the three regiments on parade,
told them that he would accompany them to Holland, and asked for
volunteers. This met with an unanimous response, but the number
required being limited, such men, only, were selected, who were judged
fittest for the service, and they started on their expedition on 25th
February, after having been inspected by the King.

It is no part of the scheme of this book to follow the fortunes of the
war, and, as there is little else noteworthy in the year 1793, we pass
to the next year.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 22nd February, 1794, His Majesty sent a message to Parliament,
calling attention to the expediency of increasing the land forces,
and, consequently, a large increase in the militia, and an addition to
the fencible corps, were voted, and the Secretary of State sent a
circular to all the Lords-lieutenant of Counties, recommending them to
solicit voluntary contributions towards carrying on the war.

Wilberforce still continued to agitate the slave question, although
not on the same lines as formerly. He changed his tactics, and, as the
sense of the House, on a previous occasion, was in favour of gradually
doing away with it, he introduced a Bill for abolishing that part of
the slave trade which related to the supply of foreign plantations. Of
course it met with opposition, Sir William Young moving that it be
read a second time this day (26th February) six months, but it was
carried in the Lower House, the numbers for the second reading being
56 against 38--majority, 18. The Bill, however, was thrown out in the
Lords, owing to the opposition of Lord Grenville, who argued that such
a Bill should not be introduced whilst the House was instituting
inquiry into the whole question. And so, for a time, it dropped,
perforce.

Many amongst us seem to think that Sir Rowland Hill originated the
penny post, but such is not the fact. That it was mainly through his
instrumentality that letters could be sent to all parts of England,
Scotland, and Ireland, at the uniform price of one penny, and that he
did much to re-organise the vast establishment of the post-office, is
beyond doubt; but the penny post existed long before that. There is a
squabble between Dockwra and Murray as to which of them commenced it
in 1683; at all events, the Government took it from Dockwra in 1690,
and afterwards gave him a pension of £500 a year, and he was made
Controller of the District Post; but he was finally discharged, on
account of some charges of malversation, &c., brought against him.

In 1711 an Act was passed abolishing the penny post, and on June 23rd
of that year a proclamation was issued, putting it in force. But it
was resuscitated, for we find, in the Parliamentary intelligence of
the _Times_, 26th February, 1794: "House of Commons, 25th February.
The House having gone into Committee, Mr. Long proposed some
resolutions to be adopted as an improvement on the mode of carrying
letters by the penny post. It was proposed that letters sent by the
penny post should be carried six times every day, and that an
additional duty of one penny should be paid to the King,--that is, as
we understand it, that the person who receives the letter shall pay a
penny in all cases, as well as he who sends it. Another resolution
was, that the postage of letters in the islands of Guernsey and Jersey
should be the same as in England." Pitt explained that the extra penny
would, probably, only cover the extra cost involved in having six
deliveries, and, after a short debate, the resolutions passed the
Committee.

The _Times_ (28th February 1794), commenting thereon says--"The new
Penny Post Office is likely to prove such a very great accommodation
to the public, that the only wonder is, it has been so long neglected.
Instead of the numbers of deliveries, and the hours of despatch
varying in different parts of the town, as at present, there will be
six deliveries each day in all parts of the town; by which means a
person living at Mary-le-Bonne may send letters to, or receive letters
from, Limehouse, a distance of seven miles, five times a day....
Persons putting in letters by nine in the morning, at the distance of
ten miles from the chief Penny Post Office, and later, at less distant
parts, may receive answers from London the same afternoon."

The Revolution in France still continued, as did then emigration, for
a return was made of the number of _emigrés_, who had been brought off
from Toulon by the British Fleet, and this report avers that they
numbered 14,877 men, women, and children. No wonder, then, at the
passing of the Alien Act.

The French Revolution, no doubt, stirred up the discontented, and
disaffected, in England: the perusal of Paine's "Rights of Man" in no
ways tended to soothe a rebellious feeling, and the mob, on several
occasions, was very riotous. Societies, like the "Corresponding
Society" and the "Society for Constitutional Information," were
founded in London, and the Government, feeling itself strong enough,
was determined to strike a blow and crush them: so, on the 12th May,
the King sent a message to Parliament, saying, that "having received
information that the seditious practices, which have been for some
time carried on by certain societies in different parts of the
country, have lately been pursued with increased activity and
boldness," &c.... he "has given directions for seizing the books and
papers of the said societies in London, which papers have been seized
accordingly, and these books and papers appear to contain matter of
the greatest importance." He directed them to be laid before
Parliament for consideration, so that they might take "measures
thereupon, as may appear to be necessary, for effectually guarding
against the further prosecution of these dangerous designs."

John Thelwall (political lecturer), Daniel Adams, and Thomas Hardy
were taken into custody. The latter two were examined before the Privy
Council on the 13th, the former on the 14th, on which date a Royal
Messenger went to Earl Stanhope's house, and arrested his lordship's
private secretary, the Rev. Jeremiah Joyce. A famous agitator, the
Rev. John Horne Tooke, was also taken. Their trials took place in
October, November, and December 1794, and ended in the acquittal of
the prisoners, after which the Government abandoned similar
prosecutions.

But a patriotic feeling was abroad, more than enough to
counterbalance these turbulent spirits. The vast majority of the
population was loyal, and volunteers hastened to band together for the
defence of their country. One or two instances will suffice. "On the
17th April the Court of Common Council of the City of London agreed to
open a subscription for raising, and disciplining, a regiment of
infantry and a troop of cavalry for the defence of the city, to be
called the 'Loyal London Volunteers.'"--"_Rutland Volunteers Troops of
Cavalry._ On the 5th instant, 154 men and horses, consisting of the
high sheriff, the noblemen, gentlemen, and yeomen, who intend forming
this corps, met at Oakham.... Uniform, French gray and buff. Every
person who belongs to this corps binds himself, under £50 penalty, to
attend when called upon."--_Times_, 21st April. These two instances
shew the wide range the volunteers' movement--then in its very
infancy--took.

The feeling, however, of the nation was not altogether unanimous in
favour of war. There was then, as now, a peace party. On 6th March Mr.
Whitbread moved an address to the King, strongly disapproving of the
policy of the Government, and of their conduct, not only preceding,
but succeeding the war. The Earl of Guildford did the same in the
Lords, but in both Houses the motions were negatived by large
majorities. Nothing daunted by this, on 30th May, the Duke of Bedford,
in the House of Lords, reviewed the causes which led to the war, and
also the foreign policy of the Government, ending by moving fourteen
resolutions, of which the most material were the two following:--"That
it appeared expedient to that House, that it should recommend to His
Majesty to adopt such measures as might lead to a negotiation for
peace."

Or that, "if His Majesty, in his wisdom, thought it advisable still
to prosecute the war, that he would be most graciously pleased to
state what the object of it was."

After a debate, which lasted till half-past one o'clock, it was
adjourned till the following Monday.

In the Commons, Fox took the same tone, winding up with--"The
advantages we had gained by sea and land were favourable for the
negotiation of a peace, as they served as so many funds to induce the
enemy to treat; and, should we fail, we should thereby justify our
pacific intentions to the world." He concluded by moving resolutions
similar to those of the Duke of Bedford. The result was--For the
previous question, 208; for Mr. Fox's resolutions, 55--majority, 153.
And no more was heard of the Duke of Bedford's resolutions.

The next, and last, great incident was, Lord Howe's great naval
victory over the French off the coast of Ushant, on "the glorious
first of June." Two 80 and five 74 gun ships were the substantial
fruits of this victory, although "Le Vengeur," one of the 74's, sunk
soon after capture, drowning some 300 men. No one knows the French
loss in this battle, but we do know, that on board the prizes taken
there were found 1200 dead bodies. Our total loss was 904. The news
travelled very fast, for that day; Sir Roger Curtis, Howe's first
captain, arrived at the Admiralty with despatches on the evening of
the 10th June.

The jubilation was great, nor was practical sympathy with the widows
and orphans of our seamen wanting. In less than one hour a thousand
guineas were subscribed at Lloyd's for their relief. The popular
rejoicing took the form of illuminating the houses, smashing Earl
Stanhope's windows, and much beer drinking. The thanks of both Houses
of Parliament were given to Earl Howe, and, on his arrival at
Portsmouth, the King, Queen, and the Royal family went down and paid
him a visit on board his own ship, on 29th June. As there is a
crispness, and freshness, about contemporary accounts of events, let
the _Times_ (July 1st) tell the story.

"On the King being received on board the 'Queen Charlotte,' he
presented Earl Howe with a diamond hilted sword. His lordship,
perceiving His Majesty's intention, threw the sword he had on his side
upon the deck, and, kneeling, received from the Sovereign's hand this
distinguished proof of approbation. His Majesty also presented a gold
chain, to which a medal is hereafter to be annexed, to Admiral Sir
Alexander Hood, and Rear-Admiral Gardner; the like honour was
conferred on Lord Howe's first captain, Sir Roger Curtis. The wounded
Admirals, Bowyer and Pasley, who consequently could not attend, have
been distinguished with similar marks of His Majesty's favour."

Poor Admirals Bowyer and Pasley had to be pensioned off, on account of
their wounds, in February 1795, the sum awarded to each being £500 per
annum.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the commencement of 1795 the French took possession of Utrecht,
Rotterdam, and Dort: the treasure of the Prince of Orange was sent to
London, and the Stadtholder and his family had to make a hurried
flight for their lives in an open boat, luckily reaching Harwich
safely. The French having thus occupied Holland, the English
Government laid an embargo on all Dutch vessels in our ports.

The Opposition still attempted to embarrass the Government on the
question of the War, and, on 26th January, Mr. Grey, in a very lengthy
speech, brought forward a motion, recommending peace with France. Pitt
came forward with an amendment, to the purport that there could be no
security for peace whilst the Government of France was an irregular
one, and, on its being put, it was carried by 269 to 86.

Wilberforce still kept "pegging away" at the Slave Trade, and, on 26th
February, introduced a motion, "for leave to bring in a Bill for the
abolition of the slave trade, at a time to be limited." Pitt lent him
the weight of his influence, but it was a small House, and he lost it
by a majority of 17.

Fox, naturally (being in opposition), was always baiting the
Government, and on 24th March he moved, "That the House should resolve
itself into a Committee to inquire into the state of the nation;" but
he suffered a severe defeat, the numbers against his motion being 219;
for, 63.

The English troops in Holland had met with a series of misadventures,
and were compelled to retreat. A fine array of 35,000 men left our
shores for this expedition, and but about a fifth part could be
mustered when they reached the town of Bremen, on the 27th and 28th of
March--and right glad were they to embark on board the transports
lying in the Elbe, ready to receive them.

       *       *       *       *       *

The harvest of 1794 had been bad, and bread and provisions generally
were so dear as practically to amount to a famine among the poor.
People, as a rule, will, unfortunately, not starve quietly, so we
hear of food riots occasionally. On 11th April a mob at Portsea
attacked the butchers' and bakers' shops, and compelled them with
persuasive eloquence to sell, the one, meat at 4d per lb.--the other,
bread at 6d a quartern loaf. Again on 20th April, the Oxford Militia,
with loaded guns and fixed bayonets, went to Seaford, where, having
confiscated all the beef and mutton they could lay their hands on,
they sold it at 4d per lb., and then, going to Newhaven, they seized
2000 sacks of flour, and sold it at their own price. This flagrant
breach of military discipline was, however, soon punished, for the
Horse Artillery and Lancashire Fencibles came up and took the rioters
prisoners. But similar riots were rife all through the Midlands.

In the autumn things got even worse, and Parliament was assembled
earlier than usual to deliberate on a remedy for this state of things;
the outcome of which was an order for a bounty of twenty shillings per
quarter on wheat from the Mediterranean, fifteen shillings on wheat
from America, and five shillings per quarter on Indian corn. Bills
also were passed prohibiting the manufacture of starch from wheat, and
also the distillation of spirit from grain.

This scarcity of food, and the heavy burdens, both in taxation, the
levying of men, and the pressgangs, fell sorely on the poor, who
murmured loudly,--a fact which was duly taken advantage of by the
demagogues for their own seditious purposes. They agitated for
universal suffrage and annual parliaments, and the movement gathered
strength. On the 26th October, the Corresponding Society held a mass
meeting in Copenhagen Fields, and the inflammatory speeches there
delivered, no doubt, bore their fruit three days afterwards, when the
mob stoned the King. As the _Times'_ account of this assault is very
meagre, compared with that in the _Annual Register_, I copy the latter
_verbatim_.

"_29th October._--On the occasion of His Majesty's going to the House
of Lords, the Mall and the Parade of St. James's Park, and Parliament
Street, were completely choked up with spectators. The crowd was by no
means so great at the Coronation, and, to see the King go to the
House, there never were before more than a tenth part of the numbers
of this day; for they, at least, amounted to 200,000. Several noblemen
and Cabinet Ministers passed through the Park from Buckingham House
about two o'clock. The Earl of Chatham, Duke of Gloucester, &c., were
hissed, and the Duke of Portland was very much hooted.

"About twenty minutes afterwards the King left Buckingham House, and
was violently hissed and hooted and groaned at the whole way; but no
violence was offered till he arrived opposite the Ordnance Office,
when a small pebble, or marble, or bullet, broke one of the windows.
In returning, the moment His Majesty entered the Park the gates of the
Horse Guards were shut, for the purpose of excluding the mob who
followed the carriage; at which, as it passed opposite Spring Gardens
Terrace, another stone was thrown, but it fortunately struck the
woodwork between the windows.

"The crowd now pressed closely round the coach, and His Majesty, in
considerable agitation, signified, by waving his hands to the Horse
Guards on each side, his anxiety that the multitude should be kept at
a distance. In this way he passed on through the Park, and round by
the Stable Yard, into St. James's Palace, at the front gate, the
bottom of St. James's Street. A considerable tumult took place when
His Majesty was about to alight, and one of the horses in the state
coach took fright, threw down an old groom of the name of Dorrington,
and broke one of his thighs, but it proved, fortunately, a simple
fracture; his other thigh was considerably bruised, but not
dangerously.

"A few minutes after His Majesty had entered the palace, the mob
attacked the state coach with stones, and did it great injury. In its
way along Pall Mall to the Mews many things were also thrown at it.
After a short time the King went, in his private coach, from St.
James's to Buckingham House; but, on his way through the Park the mob
surrounded the carriage, and prevented it from proceeding, crying out,
'Bread! Bread! Peace! Peace!'--The Guards were, however, speedily
brought up, and they protected the carriage till His Majesty got safe
into Buckingham House.

"When His Majesty entered the House of Peers, the first words he
uttered were these, to the Lord Chancellor: 'My Lord, I have been shot
at!' This alluded to the substance which had broke the window while
passing the Ordnance Office.

"Three or four persons were apprehended on suspicion of having thrown
stones, &c., at the King, and one of them was charged with having
called out, 'No king,' and other such expressions. They were all
examined at the Duke of Portland's office; and, waiting the result of
this business, nothing was done in the House of Lords till near six
o'clock, when Lord Westmoreland, who rode in the carriage with the
King, having previously moved 'that strangers be ordered to withdraw,'
stated the insult and outrage with which the King had been treated;
and added that His Majesty, and those who had accompanied him, were of
opinion that the glass of the coach had been broken by a ball from an
air-gun, which had been shot from a bow window of a house adjoining
the Ordnance Office, with a view to assassinate him.

"The King, through the whole of the riot, displayed the cool
magnanimity for which the family have ever been distinguished. At the
time that the glass of the coach was broken, he said to Lord
Westmoreland, 'That is a shot;' and, instead of leaning back in the
carriage, or striving to avoid the assassin, he pointed to the round
hole in the pane, and examined it. But this was not all; he went into
the private coach, to go from St. James's to the Queen's house, in the
midst of the wildest commotions of the multitude, thereby exposing
himself, almost without guards, to their fury; and then it was that
His Majesty's person was most imminently in danger."

"_30th October._--Confident in the attachment of his people,
notwithstanding the alarms of the preceding day, the King, accompanied
by Her Majesty and three of the Princesses, visited Covent Garden
Theatre, and, at their entrance, was received with the usual burst of
applause. 'God save the King' was sung twice, and, by a considerable
part of the house, over-zealously called for a third time; this, in a
corner of the gallery, provoked a few hisses, which, however, were
soon overruled, and one or two of the most active of the turbulent
party were turned out; after which the performance went on."

Five persons were apprehended for this outrage, but with the exception
of one, Kidd Wake, aged 27, a journeyman printer, who owned to his
hissing and hooting at His Majesty, and who was committed to take his
trial on 14th November, I cannot trace their fate; probably they were
discharged for want of evidence.

A Royal Proclamation was issued, offering one thousand pounds reward
to any one "who shall give information, so that any of such authors,
actors, or abettors, as aforesaid, shall be apprehended and brought
to justice."

In November there were fearful storms, especially on the 6th, which
were extraordinarily destructive, both to life and property. One of
these storms was so severely felt at Weymouth, that nearly 1600 dead
bodies were, at different times, thrown up on the beach, 300 being
buried at one time, and, had not the Gloucestershire Militia helped in
burying them, there would, doubtless, have been a pestilence.

On 8th December Pitt, in the House of Commons, delivered a message
from the King, in which occurs the following passage, which must have
been hailed with thanksgiving throughout the length and breadth of the
land:--"His Majesty, on this occasion, thinks proper to acquaint the
House, that the crisis which was depending[2] at the commencement of
the present session, has led to such an order of things in France, as
will induce His Majesty (conformably to the sentiments which he has
already declared) to meet any disposition to negotiation on the part
of the enemy, with an earnest desire to give it the fullest and
speediest effect, and to conclude a treaty for general peace, whenever
it can be effected on just and suitable terms for himself and his
allies."

          [Footnote 2: (?) impending.]

At the commencement of 1796 the Royal Family were still in bad odour
with a certain section of the public,--nor can it be wondered at by
any one who has studied the satirical prints of the day. Every foible
of Royalty was noted, exaggerated, engraved on "perennial brass,"
exhibited most freely in the shop windows, and most eagerly purchased.
Farmer George, and his simple, and somewhat mean habits, the Queen's
avarice, the Prince of Wales' licentiousness, and extravagance, and
all the scandals (and they were many) appertaining to the rest of the
Royal Family, were ruthlessly laid bare, and mercilessly exposed to
the public gaze.

That this must have tended to lower the Royal Family in most men's
eyes, there can be no doubt, so that we are not very much surprised at
the occasional practical manifestations of the mob. On the night of
1st February, there was more stone-throwing on the part of the
populace, which the _Times_ of 3rd February thus describes:--"On
Monday night, as the Royal Family were returning from Drury Lane
Theatre, just as they reached the middle of Pall Mall, a stone was
flung at the coach in which were their Majesties and the
lady-in-waiting, which broke the glass, and, entering the carriage,
struck the Queen on the cheek, and fell into Lady Harrington's lap.

"A deposition of the circumstances was taken yesterday at the Duke of
Portland's office, at which his Grace and some of the Bow Street
Magistrates were present; when four of the footmen attending their
Majesties were examined; a reward will be immediately offered to
discover the offender." And so it was to the extent of £1000, but
nothing came of it.

Whilst on the subject of the royal unpopularity, I may mention that
Kydd Wake, who last year was apprehended for hissing and hooting at
the King, was tried before Lord Kenyon, for "trespass, riot, and
misdemeanour," and found guilty--sentence being deferred. This,
however, was pronounced upon him by Mr. Justice Ashurst at the Court
of King's Bench 7th May. His judgment was somewhat long-winded, and he
concluded thus:--"It now becomes my duty to pronounce the sentence of
the Court; which is, that you be committed to the custody of the
keeper of the Penitentiary House, in, and for, the County of
Gloucester, and be kept to hard labour for the space of five years;
and, within the first three months of that time, that you stand in,
and upon, the Pillory for one hour, between the hours of eleven and
two o'clock in the afternoon, in some public street on a market day;
and that you give sureties in £1000, for your good behaviour for the
term of ten years, to be computed from the expiration of the said five
years; and that you be further imprisoned till you find the said
sureties."

On the 15th February, Mr. Grey, in the House of Commons, again
ventilated the subject of peace, this time in the shape of an address
to the King, praying him to communicate to the executive government of
France, his readiness to meet any disposition to negotiate a general
peace. Both Pitt and Fox spoke on the subject, but the motion was lost
by 189 to 50.

There was one crumb of comfort to the nation, which had hitherto been
suffering from a grievous scarcity of bread-stuffs, and this was the
great fall in wheat, which took place on 31st March. On that date,
owing to the large importations of foreign wheat, this grain fell 13s.
per quarter.

Joy, too, must have sprung up in the national heart when the King made
his speech on the opening of both Houses, 7th October. He said:--"I
have omitted no endeavours for setting on foot negotiations to restore
peace to _Europe_, and to secure, for the future, general
tranquillity. The steps I have taken for this purpose have at length
opened the way to an immediate and direct negotiation, the issue of
which must either produce the desirable end of a just, honourable, and
solid Peace for Us, and for Our Allies, or must prove, beyond dispute,
to what cause alone the prolongation of the calamities of war must be
ascribed. I shall immediately send a person to Paris with full powers
to treat for this object, and it is My anxious wish that this measure
may lead to the restoration of General Peace; but you must be sensible
that nothing can so much contribute to give effect to this desire, as
your manifesting that We possess both the determination and the
resources to oppose, with increased activity and energy, the farther
efforts with which We have to contend."

The "person" who was to go over to France as Plenipotentiary, was Sir
James Harris, who had lately been made Lord Malmesbury--and he arrived
at Paris on 22nd October. The usual diplomatic fencing took place, but
this was brought to an end by a squabble respecting the annexation of
the Netherlands to France. Lord Malmesbury wished to communicate with
his Government on this point, but the Directory meant to force his
hand, and required his ultimatum within twenty-four hours, and, as he
still asked for time, he was told his presence in Paris was useless,
and that he must depart within two days. He replied that he would
leave next day, and demanded his passports. On the 20th December he
left Paris for England, and so ended, for a while, all hopes of peace.
That the French had but faint hopes of a successful end to the mission
is evident, for, during the negotiations, on 2nd November, the Council
of Five Hundred passed a decree, prohibiting the importation of
British goods into the Republic.

As a proof of the patriotism of the English people, and their thorough
reliance on the Government, Pitt asked for a loan of eighteen
millions. This loan, called "The Loyalty Loan," was opened on 5th
December, and in _15 hours 20 minutes_ it was all subscribed. The
_Times_ of 6th December says--"Yesterday, soon after 11 o'clock, the
SUBSCRIPTION for EIGHTEEN MILLIONS STERLING, for the services of the
ensuing year, closed at the Bank; and such was the general desire to
subscribe, that the Court Room was a scene of the utmost confusion.
Many gentlemen were altogether disappointed; and those who could get
near the books to put down their names, did so with the utmost
difficulty. There was very little remaining to be subscribed; for a
great number of orders had been received by Mr. Newland in the
morning, from the country, which claimed a preference; and,
accordingly, the doors were shut some time, until these commissions
were written down. There is no doubt but that many millions more would
have been subscribed, if the public service had required it. There
cannot be a greater proof of the patriotism of all ranks of people in
thus assisting Government, because, at the time the loan was opened,
the other funds were considerably the cheapest purchase."

Nor was it money only, that our forefathers gave. In October 195,000
men were voted for the land service for the year 1797, and 120,000
seamen and marines for the navy. There was also a levy of 15,000 men,
from the different parishes, for sea service, and recruiting the
regiments of the line, and a supplementary militia was raised, of
60,000 men, not to be immediately called out, but to be enrolled,
officered, and completely trained, so as to be ready in a moment of
danger, and a force of 20,000 irregular cavalry was also embodied.

The year closed with a frost which exceeded in severity any known for
many years. Many people were frozen to death, and the thermometer was
34, and 35 degrees below freezing point.

       *       *       *       *       *

1797 opened very gloomily; finance, the backbone of a nation, was
somewhat dislocated. People were alarmed at the rapid growth of the
National Debt, and, selling out of the funds, found other investments
for their capital: there had been an enormous drain of bullion to
subsidise the allies, and Pitt had borrowed from the Bank in the most
reckless manner. It was in vain that the Bank remonstrated with him,
but still he borrowed, so that at last he had to be told that if he
took any more, it would probably lead to the insolvency of the Bank.
There was a run upon the country banks, and its effects were soon felt
in London; and, on 26th, an order of the Privy Council was made,
forbidding the Bank of England from making cash payments, until
Parliament had been consulted. On inquiry, it was found that the Bank
was not only perfectly solvent, but, after payment of all liabilities,
its capital would amount to £9,660,290. Under these circumstances Mr.
Pitt brought in a bill (37 George III. cap. 28), permitting the Bank
to issue notes from 20s. upwards, in lieu of cash. This measure
brought relief, and saved the National credit.

Perhaps one of the chief National events in the year, was the mutiny
of the fleets. Looking at it from this distance of time, one can
hardly wonder at it, especially when we consider the way in which the
crews were procured, by impressment and otherwise, their hard fare,
the bad accommodation for them, the frequent punishments, from 50 to
500 lashes, at the discretion of a possibly irate captain, frequently
for venial offences; add to this, small pay, and constant work, and we
are fain to acknowledge that the men who could stand such treatment
tamely, were almost more than human.

Yet they stated their grievances very properly, and quietly, sending
petitions, either in February, or March, to Lord Howe, begging him to
use his influence with the Admiralty, to procure them an increase of
wages, and an improvement in the quality, and quantity, of their
provisions. No notice whatever was taken of this temperate
remonstrance, so the men, finding no help came to them, tried to help
themselves, and secret communication was opened between all the
vessels of the fleet. No one can defend the gross breach of discipline
of which they were guilty, but it must be remembered that they were
ignorant men, smarting under a sense of injury, rendered especially
galling, by their just complaints, and moderate demands, being utterly
ignored.

Their plot to seize the ships, and expel the officers, came to be
known, and, on 15th April, Admiral Lord Bridport, in obedience to
orders from the Admiralty, signalled for the fleet to sail. But the
men refused to put to sea (unless an enemy was known to be at sea),
until their grievances had been examined into, and redressed. A
deputation, of two men from each ship, met in the Admiral's cabin, and
another petition was drawn up. On the 18th, a Committee of the Lords
of the Admiralty went to Portsmouth, to investigate the seamen's
claims; and the result was, that Admiral Bridport returned to his ship
on 23rd April, and, having hoisted his flag, he told his crew that he
brought with him the redress of all their grievances, and the King's
pardon for all offenders.

One would imagine that this would satisfy them, coming as it did from
the mouth of their "father and friend," but when, on the 7th of May,
he signalled to put to sea, no ship would obey him. The fact is, the
men were suspicious; they had been so badly treated with regard to the
granting of their moderate demands, that they thought the order for
sailing was only a ruse to get them away, and then faith would not be
kept with them. This mutiny was unfortunately accompanied by
bloodshed, and it lasted until the 14th May. On the 11th, Lord Howe
visited the fleet, saw the delegates, and assured them, that before a
Royal pardon could be proclaimed, they must express contrition for
their conduct. This they did, but solemnly declared they would never
again receive on board those officers they had sent on shore. This was
agreed to, and Lord Howe, on the 14th of May, showed them an Act of
Parliament, which granted what they wished, and the fleet at St.
Helens were, for a time, content.

But, at the Nore, there was much discontent, or rather open mutiny;
the men had forced the Admiralty to grant their demands, and now
thought they could go in for more; and, to enforce it, they attempted
to blockade the Thames, and prevent any vessel from entering or
departing,--and they did fire on several that attempted to run the
blockade. Of course, such a state of things could not last long, and
the removal of all the buoys, by the Admiralty, helped to bring about
a surrender. Their provisions began to run short, and the Government
peremptorily refused to accede to their demands. Some of the fleet
left, and returned to their duty, on the 9th June. On the 10th, more
struck the red flag, and on the 12th, there were but seven left that
were not flying the Union Jack; and next day, five of them sought the
protection of Sheerness.

The mutiny was now at an end, and it only remained to deal with the
ringleaders, the chief of whom was named Richard Parker, and he, and
several others, were duly hanged. Many who were sentenced to death
were, however, pardoned, and a general veil of oblivion was wisely
thrown over the whole affair, as soon as the men returned to their
duty.

Earlier in the year occurred a curious page in our history, nothing
less than a practical invasion of England by the French, details of
which can best be learned from contemporary accounts.

     "London Gazette, Extraordinary, February 25.

     "A letter this day received by the Duke of Portland, from Lord
     Milford, Lord-Lieutenant of the County of Pembroke, dated
     _Haverfordwest, February 23rd, 5_ P.M., contains information that
     two frigates, a corvette, and a lugger, appeared off the coast of
     Pembrokeshire the 22nd inst., and on the evening of that day
     disembarked some troops reported by deserters to be about 1200,
     but without field-pieces."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "London Gazette, Extraordinary, February 26.

     "_Haverfordwest, February 24, 1797, 6 o'clock_ A.M.--Since I had
     the honour of writing last to your Grace by Express, I have
     received information of the French ships having sailed, and left
     300 men behind, who have surrendered themselves prisoners. The
     great Spirit and Loyalty that the Gentlemen and Peasantry have
     shown on this occasion exceeds description. Many thousands of the
     latter assembled, armed with pikes, and scythes, and attacked the
     enemy, previous to the arrival of the Troops that were sent
     against them."

     "_February 24th, 9 o'clock_ P.M.--I have the honour and pleasure
     to inform your Grace, that the whole of the French troops,
     amounting to near 1400 men, have surrendered, and are now on
     their march to Haverfordwest."

And so ends the invasion of England.

On 14th February, Admiral Sir John Jervis, with fifteen sail of the
line, attacked the Spanish Fleet of twenty-seven sail of the line, off
Cape St. Vincent, captured four large vessels, and dispersed the
fleet. The news reached England on 3rd March, when London was
brilliantly illuminated.

The Whigs moved heaven and earth in order to oust Pitt and his
Government, but without success. On March 3rd the inhabitants of
Westminster met in Palace Yard, and resolved to petition the King to
dismiss his Ministry. In the City, too (the bones of whose _patres
conscripti_ would shake with indignation, could they but know of the
present wave of Conservatism, which has flowed over this Corporation),
loud, and many, were the calls to the same purport. In vain were
Common Halls convened, in vain did the Remembrancer, and the Sheriffs,
wait upon his Majesty with petitions; he would have none of them, but
would be glad to see them at a Levée; and so Pitt kept in,
notwithstanding the growls all round.

France was making peace with its enemies, one by one, and it could
easily be foreseen that, very shortly, England would have to bear all
the brunt of the war; therefore, on the 1st June, a note from Lord
Grenville was presented to M. de la Croix, the French Minister for
Foreign Affairs, in which was expressed the wish of the English
Government to negotiate preliminaries of peace. Of course there was
some diplomatic fence; but, finally, it was settled that Lord
Malmesbury should again go as Plenipotentiary. He arrived at Lisle on
6th July, but the demands of the French were outrageous, and, after,
in vain, combating their absurd requirements, he demanded his
passports, and left Lisle on 18th September.

On 11th October, Admiral Duncan attacked the Dutch fleet off
Camperdown, and, after a terrible action, defeated it, capturing
eleven vessels, and sinking one.

About the last event of national interest, occurring in this year, is
the formation of the French "Army of England," which was destined for
our invasion, and which was to be under the command of General
Buonaparte, which is about the first time our great enemy came into
active collision with us.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the commencement of 1798, the financial pressure on the nation,
caused by the war, was very great. A triple assessed tax, a loan of
£15,000,000, additional duties on salt, tea, dogs, horses and
carriages, and a tax on armorial bearings, came home to every one.
Yet, English patriotism was sound to the core, and the people helped
the Government nobly, by means of voluntary contributions. A few
examples will show how every class vied with each other in
subscribing. They are taken from the _Times_.

_February 7th._--"Yesterday the Marquis of Buckingham subscribed at
the Bank, the profits of one year's income from his Tellership of the
Exchequer. On Monday the Duke of Marlborough subscribed £5000 at the
Bank. The city of Oxford has subscribed £500 as a voluntary donation,
to be continued for three years, if the war lasts so long."

_February 8th._--"The subscriptions yesterday at the Bank amounted to
upwards of £30,000. Among the subscribers were--the Earl of Carlisle
£4000, and the Bishop of Litchfield and Coventry £1000. But the
largest individual subscriptions are expected from Manchester, from
whence letters were yesterday received, stating that three mercantile
houses in that opulent town had subscribed Thirty-five Thousand
Pounds, and that Mr. Peele's house gave £20,000."

On the 9th February a meeting, on this subject, was held at the Royal
Exchange, the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and most prominent citizens being
present--and the result is thus stated in the _Times_, 10th
February:--"As soon as the meeting was dissolved, four separate books
were opened on the Hustings; and at the close of the day, the exact
sum subscribed _in cash_, was _Forty-six Thousand, Five Hundred, and
Thirty-four Pounds, Three Shillings and sixpence_, which, if
calculated for the time the books were opened, is at the rate of £400
a minute. The number of subscribers was 218, and the subscriptions
from one guinea to £3000, which last sum was the donation of Boyd,
Benfield, & Co., with the promise of continuing it annually during the
war."

_14th February._--"The City of London yesterday subscribed £10,000
towards the contributions to the Bank. Yesterday the sum of £18,900
was subscribed by the merchants on the Royal Exchange."

It would be wearisome to detail all the subscriptions, but yet two or
three more may be recorded. The Bank of England gave £200,000, and the
King and Queen £20,000, and £5000 respectively, out of their private
purses; and on 20th September the amount of the voluntary
contributions then subscribed, was £1,514,993, 12s. 9d.

Ireland, this year, was more than disaffected: it was in open
rebellion, and, on 30th March, a proclamation was issued by the
Lord-Lieutenant, for suppressing such rebellion. That it was a most
serious one, is evidenced by a paper in Lord Edward Fitzgerald's
handwriting, that, at a meeting held 26th February 1798, a return was
made that there were in Ulster, Leinster, and Munster, 269,896 armed
men, and that their treasurer had £1485, 4s. 9d. in hand. That this
was not altogether an exaggeration, is shewn by the fact that, in the
year 1797, there were seized by the Government, in the provinces of
Leinster, and Ulster, alone, 49,109 guns, 1756 bayonets, 4463 pistols,
4183 swords, 248 blunder-busses, 119 musket-barrels, 106 sword-blades,
22 pieces of ordnance, and 70,630 pikes, besides other weapons
voluntarily surrendered. In the same year, 14,973 pikes were
surrendered in the county of Kildare alone, and in Dublin, on 11th May
1798, 5 pieces of cannon, and 500 pike handles, were seized.

On 24th May, seeing that war was being openly waged against the
Government, the Lord-Lieutenant issued a proclamation warning the
people that they were put under martial law, and, on the morrow, the
rebels were defeated, with much loss, near Carlow, and, after the
engagement, about 200 of them were hanged, or shot. Then the rebels
gained a slight advantage, especially at Enniscorthy, where they
compelled the garrison to retreat. This, and a few other small
successes, were amply avenged by Lord Lake, on 21st June, at Vinegar
Hill, a position which the Irish had held since the 28th May. Their
rout was complete, and their slaughter must have been immense, for no
quarter was given by the Royal troops. Then came the trials of the
ringleaders, and the gibbet was in constant requisition.

And, now, the French must needs have a finger in this pie, although
their attempt at invasion was simply ludicrous. The following is the
first official news, and it is a letter from the Duke of Portland to
the Lord Mayor:--"_27th August._ I think it right to inform your
Lordship, that, by official accounts received this morning from the
Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, it appears that three French frigates,
unaccompanied by any transports, appeared in the Bay of Killala, on
the evening of the 22nd instant, and landed about 700 men, who
immediately took possession of the town of Killala, and made a small
party of the Prince of Wales' Fencible Regiment, consisting of an
officer and 20 men, and some yeomen, prisoners; a large force is
collecting from different quarters, and every necessary preparation
making for attacking the enemy."

This expedition, consisting of 1030 privates and 70 officers under
General Humbert, had sailed from Rochelle, with the intention of
rendering material help to the Irish rebels--and, after the capture of
Killala, they marched on Castlebar, where was a force of from 2000 to
3000 regulars, under Lord Lake. The English artillery, however,
expended their ammunition too soon; a fact the French did not lose
sight of, but, charging, put the English force to flight, and
they then occupied Castlebar. But here was the end of their
success--General Lake and Lord Cornwallis surrounded them, and the
French had to surrender, but no quarter was given to the Irish. The
number of French troops, on their surrender, was 96 officers, and 748
non-commissioned officers and privates, the rest having been lost
since their landing at Killala. This force was intended to be the
vanguard of a larger expedition, which was prevented joining, by want
of funds.

Another little expedition set sail from France, to help General
Humbert, consisting of one ship of the line, eight frigates, a
schooner, and a brig. It was met by Sir John Borlase Warren, who was
cruising, with seven sail of the line, off Lough Swilly. They engaged,
and, after an action of three hours and forty minutes' duration, the
French three-decker, and three of the frigates, hauled down their
colours, and of the five frigates that then escaped, three were
subsequently captured.

The rebellion in Ireland was now virtually at an end, the rebels were
dispersed, and their leaders accounted for. Still, this result was not
arrived at without a fearful expenditure of treasure and life; it
being estimated that not less than 30,000 lives had been sacrificed.
£1,000,000 was voted by Parliament, as compensation for injury done to
the Loyalists in Ireland, and that sum was reckoned as only being a
third of their actual losses.

On the 1st August of this year was fought the battle of the Nile; the
news of which, however, did not reach the Admiralty until the 2nd
October, and great were the rejoicings, and illuminations, on the 3rd.
With this welcome news, the chronicle of the year may well end.

       *       *       *       *       *

As far as we can judge, from the lights of history which are left to
us, nothing was going particularly wrong with the national arms, or
the national prosperity, considering we were at war, but the powers,
that were, thought things might possibly go better, if they had a
General Fast, so, on the 1st February, 1799, a proclamation was
issued:--

"George R.--We, taking into Our most serious consideration the just
and necessary War, in which We are engaged, for the Maintenance of the
Independence of Our Crown, for the Defence and Protection of the
Commerce, and of the Rights and Liberties, Civil and Religious, of Our
Subjects, and putting Our trust in Almighty God, that He will
graciously bless Our Arms, both by Sea and Land, have resolved, and
do, by and with the Advice of Our Privy Council, hereby command that a
Publick Fast and Humiliation be observed throughout that part of Our
Kingdom of _Great Britain_ called _England_, Our Dominion of _Wales_,
and _Town of Berwick upon Tweed_, on _Wednesday_, the Twenty-seventh
Day of this instant _February_; that so both We and Our People may
humble Ourselves before Almighty God, in order to obtain Pardon of Our
Sins; and may, in the most devout and solemn Manner, send up Our
Prayers and Supplications to the Divine Majesty, for averting those
Heavy Judgments which Our manifold Sins and Provocations have most
justly deserved; and imploring His Blessing and Assistance on Our
Arms, and for restoring and perpetuating Peace, Safety and Prosperity,
to Us and Our Kingdoms," &c. &c. There were special forms of prayer
for morning, communion, and evening services.

In January, and February, there was much agitation as to the union
with Ireland, to which the Irish Parliament, by small majorities, was
agreeable; but it was reserved till 1st January, 1801, to become an
accomplished fact.

After besieging St. Jean d'Acre for sixty days, in vain, Napoleon
determined to raise the siege, and, on the 20th May, his army began
its return march to Egypt. He threw his heavy artillery into the sea,
not being able to transport it across the desert, and the English had
previously captured his battering train. It need scarcely be said that
there was great rejoicing in England.

Volunteers had sprung up as if by magic, and it was felt that it would
do good, if they received some direct recognition from royalty, and
were reviewed by the King. Accordingly, the time was fixed for the 4th
of June, and the place, Hyde Park. I know I shall be pardoned if I
give a list of the corps who were then reviewed, as so many of the
modern Volunteers must be ignorant that their progenitors were present
on this occasion.

  Cavalry.

  Islington.
  Westminster.
  Clerkenwell.
  Battersea.
  Wimbledon.
  Lambeth.
  Deptford.
  London and Westminster.
  Southwark.
  Surrey Yeomanry.
  Clapham.


  Infantry.

  _Left Column._

  Hon. Artillery Corps.
  St. George's Regiment.
  Hackney.
  Westminster.
  Islington.
  Clerkenwell.
  St. Sepulchre.
  St. George's, Bloomsbury.
  London Volunteers.
  St. Luke's, Chelsea.
  St. Margaret and St. John.
  St. Mary-le-bonne.
  St. Martin's.
  Union.
  Chiswick.
  St. Paul, Covent Garden.
  Brentford.
  Fulham.
  St. George's, Hanover Sq.
  S.E. London Volunteers.

  _Centre Column._

  Bloomsbury, &c.
  St. James's.
  N.E. London Volunteers.
  Hampstead.
  Temple.
  Pimlico.
  Finsbury Square.
  Somerset Place.
  Knight Marshal.
  Three Wards Association.

  _Right Column._

  Stoke Newington.
  Tottenham.
  Enfield.
  Edmonton.
  Hans Town.
  St. Andrew and St. George.
  St. Clement Danes.
  Streatham.
  Limehouse.
  Ratcliffe.
  Clapham.
  Battersea.
  St. Catherine's.
  Poplar and Blackwall.
  Whitechapel.
  Highgate.
  Lambeth.
  St. Pancras.
  Wapping.
  Hendon.
  St. Olave.
  Eight Ward Association.
  Shoreditch.

In all, there were 8193 effective men, and the Review was very
successful, the only exception that was taken to it being, that some
of the newly-embodied Corps did not fire with perfect regularity.
Every Londoner is familiar with the statue in Pall Mall, of George
III. on horseback, doffing his cocked hat. Well, that was how he
appeared at this Review, which happened on his birthday. On the 21st,
he, and all the young Princes, inspected some 12,200 men, in a very
curious fashion. The Corps were not brigaded, as in Hyde Park, but
were inspected in their different districts. The Royal party started
at a quarter before 9 A.M., returned to Buckingham House at 6 P.M.,
and then set off for Windsor, a good day's work! especially as it all,
with the exception of the journey to Windsor, had to be done on
horseback. The King, and party, were to have gone to Leman Street,
Whitechapel, to inspect the Shoreditch, Whitechapel, and Mile End
Volunteers, but he could not get so far, so turned up Houndsditch, to
Finsbury. The only refreshment, and rest, the Royal party seem to have
had, was breakfast with the Lord Chancellor, at his house in Upper
Guildford Street, where they remained an hour and a-half.

The history of the remainder of the year is centred in Napoleon
Buonaparte. On 23rd of August, he suddenly left Egypt, affairs in
France requiring his presence there, if he would look after his own
interests. Had he not done so, it is probable that the world would
never have heard so much of him; as it was, he was elected the First
Consul of the three,--Cambacérès, and Le Brun, being his coadjutors.

On the 25th December of this year, Napoleon committed a solecism in
diplomatic etiquette, by writing an autograph letter direct to George
III., pointing out how each nation was wasting its strength and
resources, and suggesting the possibility, and desirability, of peace.
Lord Grenville replied to this letter, through Talleyrand, much to
Napoleon's disgust, and expressed his regret that the English
Government did not yet see its way to enter into negotiations for a
peace, which would not, in all probability, be a lasting one.

This year will close with a report of the number of French prisoners
in England, taken December 31, when they were delivered over to our
Transport Board, the Consular Government refusing to provide for them
any longer.

  At Plymouth               7,477
  "  Portsmouth            10,128
  "  Liverpool              2,298
  "  Stapleton                693
  "  Chatham                1,754
  "  Yarmouth                  50
  "  Edinburgh                208
  "  Norman Cross           3,038
                           ------
                  Total    25,646




MEN'S DRESS.


The latter part of the last century was noticeable for the great, and
grave, mutations which took place in masculine attire, and, most
particularly, during the times here treated of. Previously, the wig,
and dress (quaker cut) coat, had long had a successful run, but people
visited the Continent more, especially France, and brought back French
fashions, which at this time were particularly fantastic. The Prince
of Wales, too, delighted in fine dress, and was "_arbiter
elegantiarum_" of his sex. At every levée, and public appearance, his
dress was always expatiated on, and the "gilded youth" of the period,
dressed _up_ to him, and copied his manner, even to his bow.

We, in our days, cannot afford to jeer at the accompanying
illustration, when we see, in the advertisement sheets of some of our
periodicals, men's stays advertised, and even vividly depicted; and,
therefore, we must not throw the first stone of laughter at the
fashions of 1788.

Here we see the transition stage, the modification of the old courtly
wig, with its accompanying powder, and black silk bag for the _queue_,
now only to be seen pinned on to the coat collars of court officials,
and extremely magnificent _major domos_, &c., and, also, we see the
old court dress coat has now taken unto itself a collar, of that
exaggerated description which was so much in vogue during the next
twenty years. Frilled shirts, and ruffles, still existed, and the
curious custom of wearing two watches was the fashion. Here, again,
history has somewhat repeated itself in our modern double watch-chain,
except that now only one watch is worn, the other side guarding a
sovereign purse.

Brighthelmstone or Brighton--beloved of George the Magnificent,
whether as Prince, Regent, or King--was the place where the
fashionable youth congregated, and therefore we may take the following
extract from the _Morning Post_ (the _doyen_ of the Daily Press) of
18th September, 1788:--

     "Brighton Dress.

     "The fashionable bathing dress, at Brighton, is chiefly a pair of
     _buff trousers_, with a slight jacket.

     "This is adopted by all the young men of the place, and a number
     of idle, sauntering _land lubbers_ meet the eye every morning on
     the Steyne, that one cannot help wishing for a sturdy _pressgang_
     to give them useful employment, or at least keep them out of
     mischief.

     "After breakfast they are accoutred for the sports of the field.

     "The _sporting dress_ is a _brown jacket_, with a multiplicity of
     pockets, on each side, that reaches from the bottom to the top,
     so that, from this appearance, it is somewhat difficult to
     determine which the fashionable tribe most resemble--a set of
     grooms, or a company of smugglers.

     "When the dinner hour arrives, after these sprightly and heroic
     gentlemen have '_slain their thousands, and ten thousands_,'
     according to their own account, in the field, with as little
     _winking and blinking_ as Major Sturgeon himself, they then
     attire themselves in order to enjoy the pleasures of the table,
     and, however deranged they may afterwards be by convivial excess,
     they march or _stagger_ away to _the Rooms_, as circumstances may
     determine, and entertain the Ladies with _elegant_ and _decent_
     gallantry."

[Illustration: The Prince's Bow "Monstrous like the Prince! The very
bow, demme!"]

[Illustration: Tight Lacing.--1788. "These tight Stays will be the
death of me!"]

About this time flourished that curious being, the "_Macaroni_," but
most of his portraits are evidently such gross caricatures, that I
have not cared to reproduce them. I have been compelled to draw upon
the satirical prints of the period, as a future historian would take
the pictures from _Punch_, if he wanted to hit the passing folly of
the day; but we must not forget that the satirical prints of the last
century, did not their spiriting so gently as our modern
caricaturists, but exaggerated in every way, in facial expression, and
in costume.

The following brace of _Macaronis_ is taken from a print of the "_Mock
Duel, or a trip to Flanders_," 26th May, 1789: and, although the
costume is scrupulously correct, yet one can hardly help thinking that
the designer of the wig, which was typical of the genus, has somewhat
"drawn upon his imagination for his facts." The name _Macaroni_ was
applied, in derision, to those youths who had made the _Grand Tour_,
and were fond, on their return, of shewing off their superior graces,
and extolling the polished manners, and superior civilization, of the
countries they had visited. In those days you were nothing unless
classical. Modern languages were rarely taught, Science was all but
unknown, Latin and Greek were the chief branches of education, and
rich men were keen collectors of everything classical, marble statues
and busts, bronzes, and coins--so Italy was naturally the bourne of
these travelled youths, and John Bull, who then was, in the aggregate,
a very stay-at-home animal, derided them, when they came back, with
the epithet _Macaroni_, an elegant title derived from the popular
Italian dish.

The home-keeping youths imitated their brethren as well as they could,
but it was at a very humble distance, and their dress, though
partially modelled on that of their confrères, was much exaggerated,
and did not display such simplicity or good taste.--John Bull had a
name ready for him; a home-manufactured Macaroni was "a Jessamy."

These _Jessamies_ were, like the modern _Mashers_, effeminate, and
comparatively harmless beings--entirely taken up with the
contemplation of their external appearance, and the attempted
subjugation of the other sex.

See the following quotation from the _Morning Post_ 4th July
1789:--"There is not a man in the nation, no not even Lord Effingham,
who bestows so much time and attention in rendering the external
appearance of his head, elegant in the extreme, than the Earl of
Scarborough. It is said that his Lordship keeps six French frizeurs,
who have nothing else to do than dress his hair. Lord Effingham keeps
only Five!!!"

The _Jessamies_, however, were only one class among the youth of the
time, and I fear, by far the smallest. The majority were what we now
should term "fast." Animal spirits in young men must have vent
somehow.

There were then no rowing, cycles, or other means of getting rid of
the superfluous energy they possessed. Men's social habits were not
at all of a "blue riband" nature, and, after dinner, the bottle
circulated freely. So those who, like Charles Reade's description of
modern athletic young men, knew "only one language, and lived
principally in the open air," naturally became either "A choice
Spirit," "A Buck," or "A Blood," descendants of the "Hectors,"
"Muns," "Titiretus," "Scourers," and "Mohocks"--men that hustled
honest folk, sang roaring, maudlin, filthy songs--men from whom no
woman was safe; who, armed with bludgeons, and going in company in
large numbers, boxed the watch, set the constables at defiance, and
made night hideous with their brawls and shouting.

[Illustration: Macaronis (From the Mock Duel, 1789.)]

Far be it from me to say that the whole youth of this age could be
classed either in one, or other, of these two categories; there were
good young men who probably "always came home to their tea," well
dressed, well read, well mannered--such as "A Smart."

As a rule, even now-a-days, a man when in the country, very seldom, or
never, carries an umbrella: to a Londoner it is part of his costume.
In Anne's reign the use of the umbrella was strictly set apart for the
softer sex, and then only for those whose avocations compelled them to
be out, whatever the weather. As Gay says in his "_Trivia_"--

  "The tuck'd-up sempstress walks with hasty strides,
  While streams run down her oil'd umbrella's sides."

But for men, fie! he must be an effeminate coxcomb who would carry
one. Hear what fun was made of him (_Female Tatler_, December
12):--"The Young Gentleman belonging to the Custom House, that for
fear of rain borrowed the umbrella at Will's Coffee House in Cornhill
of the _Mistress_, is hereby advertised that to be dry from head to
foot on the like occasion, he shall be welcome to the _Maid's
Pattens_."

One John Macdonald, a footman, who wrote his own biography, helps us
to fix a date when the use of them, by men, was so rare as to make the
user singular. He says that he had "a fine silk umbrella, which he
brought from Spain; but he could not, with any comfort to himself, use
it, the people calling out 'Frenchman! why don't you get a coach?'"
However, he "persisted for three months, till they took no further
notice of this novelty. Foreigners began to use theirs, and then the
English." Macdonald wrote in 1778. Jonas Hanway, the philanthropist,
who had travelled much in Persia and the East, is said to have been
the first Englishman who habitually carried an umbrella whilst walking
in the street. He died in 1786.

That it was not in general use in the year 1790, is evidenced by the
somewhat sneering title of a "Rain Beau," or one that was afraid of a
drop of rain. This illustration shews several modifications of fashion
besides the use of the umbrella. The cocked hat had gone out--and the
galling yoke of the "chimney pot" was being inaugurated. As yet it was
limp, of felt, but there is the hideous head covering that has
martyrised at least three generations.

Then we cannot but notice that the hair has lost all trace of the
wig--and is allowed to be worn "_au naturel_." A huge cravat swathes
the throat, the coat is cut shorter, and more fly-away than hitherto,
that knee breeches are disappearing, and pantaloons coming in, to be
in their turn superseded by the modern trouser. Lastly, the term
_Macaroni_, or _Jessamy_, is replaced by _Beau_--which will soon have
to give way to _Dandy_.

Jimmy Lincum Feadle shows us the Beau of 1791. Here the fashion
is evidently imported from France--loud coloured striped
coat--pantaloons, boots and all. The French Revolution was hastening
on, rapidly, to its culmination, and, the younger Whigs, before the
time came when they were utterly disgusted by the brutal excesses of
the French, copied the dress of the Revolutionary party.

[Illustration: A Jessamy.--1790.]

[Illustration: A Choice Spirit.]

[Illustration: A Buck.]

The accompanying illustration will show how far they succeeded. There
is an elaborately studied negligence about the coat, and a height
about the hat, which could never be of native production, whilst the
bludgeon must have belonged to some "Merveilleux," (the class whom
Bonaparte so cordially detested), and have been imported direct from
Paris. The supercilious look, and the mincing gait, are warranted
truly Parisian, and I have very little doubt but that Isaac Cruikshank
sketched him from the life.

The term "a Crop," is indicative of Revolutionary and Republican
sympathies. Lucius Junius Brutus, and all the ancient Romans, wore
their hair cut short--and so we must needs copy them, and have a
revolution in hair cutting, just to show the outer world what our
thoughts are on the present position of political parties. The
elaborate hair of the _Macaroni_ or the _Jessamy_, or even the
negligent, but natural _chevelure_ of the _Beau_, would not suit
Republican simplicity, and, as in our own Commonwealth, the men of the
Republic cropped their heads, as a testimony against their political
opponents, so did they in 1791. The Duke of Bedford, especially,
attracted public attention, by having his hair cut short, and many are
the allusions to him, with respect to it, in the public prints.

But with 1792 came another change of fashion, of which we get two
views, back and front, and as they are by a lady (Miss Keate), they
are probably not caricatured.

Here we see a return to a more natural style of dress, the colours of
which, in "_Neck or Nothing_," are well chosen, and very becoming. Of
course the awful cravat is of white cambric or muslin, and he wears a
pink underwaistcoat, white over-waistcoat, and knee-breeches, a
mulberry-coloured coat, and blue and white stockings; hair powdered.

"A back view of the cape" is not so felicitous as regards colour,
being somewhat "_prononcé_." The coat is green, breeches yellow,
necktie yellow, stockings grey, powdered hair, and a liberal supply of
powder on the back of the coat.

In order to keep this hair powder on the hair, it was necessary to
saturate it with some kind of grease, even if only a tallow dip, or
rushlight, were used; but an advertisement in the _Times_, of 7th
February 1793, gives us some notion as to the antiquity of Bears'
Grease, which must have been undoubtedly genuine, if the last
paragraph can be taken as a fact:--

     "JUST KILLED, an extraordinary fine Fat Russian Bear, at Ross's
     Ornamental Hair and Perfumery Warehouse, No. 119 Bishopsgate
     Street (late Vickery's), three doors from the London Tavern.

     "The excellent virtue which the fat of Bears possesses, has been
     experienced by thousands of both sexes, and of all Ages, in this
     Metropolis. To those who have used the real Bears' Grease, it is
     evident no Grease whatever beside, retains its moisture so long
     upon the head, it being the only thing possible to make the Hair
     grow thick and long, recover it after illness, prevent it
     falling off, or turning grey, during life: being the most
     efficacious remedy for making the Hair grow on Horses' knees
     when broken or chafed.

     "It is sold at 1s. per ounce, or 16s. the pound, to be seen cut
     off the Animal in the presence of the purchaser."

_Apropos_ of "cropping," take the following skit from the _Times_,
January 21, 1794:--

     "Sir Robert Mackworth is at Bath, and seems to be no otherways
     distinguished than by the particularity of his equipage: he
     drives four horses of different colours in his phaeton, which has
     four wheels painted to correspond with the colours of the horses:
     in the midst of his badge of distinction, the bloody hand, is the
     figure of 4, which he explains in this way, four in hand. The
     motto 'This is the Tippy.' If anything can add to the folly of
     the whole it is that he intends to crop four opposite ears of his
     horses, to make room for four monstrous roses, of different
     colours, to match."

[Illustration: A Smart.--1790.]

[Illustration: A Rain-beau.]

The Court dresses which the Nobility and Gentry then wore, were
magnificent, and the following are only a few, taken as an example,
from the _Times_, June 4, 1794:--

    "KING'S BIRTHDAY.

     "Yesterday, being the anniversary of the King's birthday, when
     His Majesty entered into the 57th year of his age, a Drawing-Room
     was held in the afternoon, and, at night, a Ball at St. James'.
     The Gentlemen's dresses were in general embroidered silks and
     silk cloths: but one half were dressed in Regimentals.

     "His Majesty, as usual on his own Birthday, was in a plain suit
     of clothes. The best dressed Gentlemen whom we saw at Court, and
     indeed their dresses were very generally noticed for their taste
     and splendour, were--


     "Mr. Skeffington.

     "A brown spotted silk coat and breeches, with a white silk
     waistcoat richly embroidered with silver, stones, and shades of
     silk: the design was large baskets of silver and stones, filled
     with bouquets of roses, jonquilles, &c., the _ensemble_ producing
     a beautiful and splendid effect.


     "The Hon. Thomas Anson.

     "A striped silk coat and breeches, with a white silk waistcoat,
     richly embroidered with white silk and dentelle: the waistcoat
     embroidered to match the coat.


     "The Hon. Mr. Paget.

     "A brown and blue striped silk coat and breeches, with a white
     silk waistcoat, the suit elegantly embroidered with silver,
     stones, and bouquets of flowers.


     "Duke of Queensberry.

     "A striped, and spotted silk coat, and breeches, with diamond
     buttons, with a white silk waistcoat embroidered with silver,
     stones, and silk.


     "Marquis of Lorn.

     "A blue and brown striped silk cloth coat, and breeches, with a
     white silk waistcoat, embroidered with dentelle, and shades of
     silk.


     "Lord Willoughby de Broke.

     "A dark olive spotted silk coat, and breeches, with a white silk
     waistcoat, the suit richly embroidered in silver, coloured
     stones, and shades of silk."

Anent Hair Powder, we have the following, which may be a libel:--

     "As a Frenchman cannot exist without a powdered head, and meal
     being so dear in France, the _Beaux_ are under the necessity of
     wearing _powdered whiting_. Rouge is plenty enough, that article
     not being put in requisition: the ladies therefore, as usual,
     wear their faces under _red masks_. They go to bed as blooming as
     _Sol_, when he retires to the _Lap of Thetis_: and rise as pale
     as _Cynthia_, in her nocturnal visits to the earth."--(_Times,
     Nov. 29, 1794._)

     "_Mother of Pearl buttons_ are likely to take the lead in the
     fashionable world, as they are both beautiful and ornamental, as
     well as durable and economical: on the contrary, those made of
     steel, and other metals, soon rust, and want frequent
     cleaning."--(_Times, Dec. 16, 1794._)

[Illustration: Jimmy Lincum Feadle--1791.]

[Illustration: A Scaramouch.]

By the 35 Geo. III., c. 49--a Duty was laid on Hair powder--and "the
Crops," besides their (as we should term it) Radical tendencies, were
extra unpopular among the Tories, because they evaded the Hair Powder
duty, by wearing none:--

     "A numerous club has been formed in Lambeth, called the _Crop
     Club_, every member of which, on his entrance, is obliged to have
     his head docked as close as the Duke of Bridgewater's old bay
     coach-horses. This assemblage is instituted for the purpose of
     opposing, or rather evading, the tax on powdered
     heads."--(_Times, April 14, 1795._)

     "The following Noblemen and Gentlemen were of the party with the
     Duke of Bedford at Woburn Abbey, when a general cropping, and
     combing out of hair powder took place: Lord W. Russell, Lord
     Villiers, Lord Paget, &c., &c. They entered into an engagement to
     forfeit a sum of money if any of them wore their hair tied, or
     powdered, within a certain period. Many Noblemen and Gentlemen in
     the county of Bedford have since followed the example: it has
     become general with the Gentry in Hampshire, and the Ladies have
     left off wearing powder."--(_Times, Sept. 25, 1795._)

     "The Bedford Crops.--Something has at last fallen from this party
     to entertain the Public. We hope they will find their heads
     cooler for this salutary operation. Dr. Willis[3] is of opinion,
     that more than one of them ought to have been _shaved_. If the
     _Shavees_ think by publishing their names they will gain
     proselytes, till their absurdity is lost in the crowd, they are
     mistaken. Can it be supposed that a few drunken persons in a
     frolic, will be followed by the sober part of the people of
     England?

          [Footnote 3: Dr. Willis was a Clergyman, who turned
          Physician, and his specialty was treatment of the insane. He
          attended George III. in his mental alienation, and was
          handsomely rewarded.]

     "The new Crop is called the _Bedford Level_.

     "An Irish Member once proposed in the House of Commons of that
     Country, to encourage the breed of _Crops_. We believe no such
     proposition is likely to be renewed upon the present
     occasion."--(_Times, Sept. 29, 1795._)

     "The price of hair is considerably fallen. The wig-makers declare
     people are so afraid of having anything from the _crops_, that
     they can't sell a _single peruke_."--(_Times, Nov. 23, 1795._)

We get a curious insight into the manners of the young men of that
day, in the following cutting from the _Times, Dec. 14, 1795_:--

     "If the young men of the present day have not much wit in their
     heads, they have it at least in their _hats_. Amongst the
     pleasantries we have seen in this way, are the following: 'Not
     yours.'--'Hands off'--'No vermin'--and 'Rip this as you would a
     hot potato'--and other charming sallies of _refined_ and
     _elegant_ vivacity. But the wittiest linings are the political
     ones: Upon a table, the other day we observed one perfectly
     clean, in which was written '_Avaunt, Guinea Pig!_' and on the
     lining, in a very powdery hat, that lay in a window in the same
     room, were inscribed the two following monosyllables, '_Off
     Crop_.'"

     "A Crop, who had begun to let his hair grow, was accused of
     aristocracy, and had his head shaved in the form of a horse-shoe
     at Wooburn, by a verdict of his Peers."--(_Times, Dec. 30,
     1795._)

Clothes were dear in those days, as the following Tailor's bill
shows--because we must reckon the value of money then at more than
double what it is now:--

     "Address to the Public.--Those Gentlemen who are inclined to a
     solicitude to their interests, the undermentioned prices will be
     found to be highly advantageous:--

     "G. Brown & Co., Taylors, No. 17 Sun St., Bishopsgate.

  A suit of the best Superfine Cloth             £4   4  0
  A Coat and Waistcoat     ditto                  3   8  0
  A Coat                   ditto                  2  12  6
  A suit of the best Second Cloth                 3  10  0
  A Coat           ditto                          1  18  0
  An Elastic Cloth Coat                           2   2  0
  A Florentine, or Satin Waistcoat and
    Breeches of the best                          3   3  0
  A pair of Breeches ditto                        1  18  0
  A Waistcoat        ditto                        1   5  3
  A Cassimere Waistcoat and Breeches              1  16  0
  A pair of Breeches ditto                        1   1  0
  All sorts of Manchester Cotton Breeches
    according to their respective sorts and
    qualities, from 16s. to                       1   4  0
  A superfine Cloth Surtout Coat                  3   0  0
  A ditto of Second or Elastic Cloth              2   2  0
  A ditto of Bath Beaver, from 24s. to            1  11  6
  A frock suit of Livery, all Cloth               3   3  0
  A ditto, with Shag Breeches                     3  12  0
  A Livery Surtout of Drab Cloth                  2   0  0
  A Coach-Box Coat      ditto                     3   3  0
  A Cotton Thicksett Frock and Waistcoat          2   2  0
  A Pillow Fustian          ditto                 1  11  6
  A Duffil Jacket and Waistcoat ditto             1  10  0

     "The above Prices are calculated for middle-sized men only, and
     the difference in all colours in grain, Blues and Greys, gilt or
     extra buttons, Waistcoat sleeves, &c., must be paid for
     extra."--(_Times, April 16, 1795._)

[Illustration: Aping the Frenchman]

Among the eccentricities of Costume, was a Coat devised by the then
Earl Spencer. He made a bet that he would cut off the tails of the
coat which he then wore, and appear in public in a jacket, which,
within a week, should be the fashion. He did so, and won his bet.
Gillray caricatured the Earl, in a picture 17th May, 1792. Earl
Spencer wears (in the picture) a blue spencer red coat with brass
buttons, yellow trousers, and blue and white stockings. The
"Threadpaper" has a green coat and grey stockings. Both have plenty of
powder on the backs of their coats.

The fashion is alluded to in a paragraph in the _Times_ of 16th May
1795, and the "livery" therein alluded to is a covert satire on the
"Windsor Uniform," which has been the semi-court dress, from George
III.'s time to our own. It is said to have been taken from the uniform
of a Berkshire Volunteer Cavalry Regiment, of which the King was
Colonel:--

     "The general fashion of wearing _Spencers_, reminds us of a wager
     laid by Lord _March_, who betted several years ago a considerable
     sum with some of his friends, that he would be able to introduce
     to general imitation, the most humiliating fashion he could think
     of. Accordingly he appeared several days successively about the
     Royal Exchange, dressed like a livery servant. The livery
     consisted of a blue coat, with crimson collar and cuffs; and he
     gained the wager."--(_Times, May 16, 1795._)

The accompanying illustration by W. Hanlon (11th July 1795) is, of
course, a caricature, but it is intended to show the eccentricities of
dress, in which the "Crops" indulged.

  THE BOND STREET LOUNGE.

  AN IMPROMPTU.

  _Modo vir, modo foemina.--Virgil._

  (_Times, January 7th, 1796._)

  When men in _Petty-Coats_ appear,
  No wonder Wives the breeches wear:
  Assuming manners quite robust,
  Game, swear, drive, box, or _take a thrust_.
  But happier far would be the case,
  Were each to keep their proper place:
  The fair ones wear the female dress,
  And men adorn their persons less;
  For such the fashion of the day,
  They make it difficult to say,
  Whether the _pretty things_ we meet,
  Parading through their fav'rite street,
  A Male or Female we may call,
  Their shapes are so equivocal.      V.

  London Coffee-House,
  _January 7th, 1796_.

     "The high kick of fashion is to wear only one spur, like a
     postillion, and to have an assortment of long whips tied up
     behind the curricle, in case of wearing them all out in Bond St.,
     during a ride in the morning."--(_Times, August 3, 1796._)

[Illustration:

  Neck or Nothing      A Back View of the Cape

  --1792.]

[Illustration: A Spencer and a Thread Paper.--1792.]

We need not go very far, any day in Winter, to see the young men of
our day, doing the same thing, and looking extremely "Norse"--they
never telling of the Chamois leather vests they wear.

     "One of the latest roads to fame that any of our young men of
     _ton_ have discovered, is to wrap their bodies carefully in
     flannel under the shirt, and to keep the coat and waistcoat quite
     open, to show the strength of their constitution, and set the
     snow at defiance."--(_Times, January 2, 1797._)

            *       *       *       *       *

     "Margate is already beginning to be crowded, as usual, with all
     sorts, and for all purposes, some to undo, and some to be undone;
     wives to leave their husbands, and misses to procure theirs. Some
     tradesmen gone down to get, and others to get rid of their money:
     old maids to display tresses not their own, and the young men to
     show off Brutus heads, when the grand point is, whether their's
     or their type's in Ross's shop window have the most brains:
     perhaps there cannot be situations more calculated to display
     what Shenstone terms 'The various ways of dressing a calf's
     head.'"--(_Times, August 5, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Milan, _July 15th_.--In order to a due execration of the
     licentious dresses which our Government has forbidden, the
     executioner of this place, with his wife, appeared in the public
     walk. He was _elegantly_ dressed, with his head _à la Brutus_, a
     large cravat which, concealing the chin, reached to the mouth:
     long pantaloons, hanging loose: and shoes, the points of which
     were a finger's length. His wife was quite _à la
     guillotine_--naked shoulders, neck and arms."--(_Times, August 5,
     1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Our emaciated beaux in their quilted lappelles and stuffed
     sleeves are like a dry walnut in a great shell."--(_Times, August
     20, 1799._)

This paragraph is easily explained by a reference to the two
accompanying engravings.

These peculiar garments were called "Jean Debry," after the French
statesman of that name, who was born in 1760, died 1834. He was a
somewhat prominent figure in the French Revolution, and, as his name
was at this time much in men's mouths, he was made the peg on which to
hang a coat.--"A French Taylor fitting John Bull with a Jean de Bry,"
is by Gillray, 18th November 1799, and, although a gross Caricature,
fairly represents the garment. The tailor is in ecstasy with the fit.
"Aha! dere my friend, I fit you to de life! dere is Liberté! no tight
Aristocrat Sleeves, to keep from you vat you like! a ha! begar, dere,
he only want von leetle National Cockade to make look quite a la mode
de Paris!"

John Bull surveys himself in the looking-glass, grumbling at his
change of costume. "Liberty! quotha! why, zounds, I can't move my arms
at all! for all it looks woundy big! Oh! damn your French Alamodes,
they give a man the same Liberty as if he was in the Stocks! give me
my old Coat again, say I, if it is a little out of Elbows!"

     "The items of a fashionable Taylor's bill are not a little
     curious at present:--Ditto, to pasteboard for your back; ditto,
     to buckram for your cape; ditto, for wool for your shoulders,
     and cotton for your chest. Shakespeare talks of Nature's
     Journeymen who make men indifferently, but our Journeymen Taylors
     make their customers of any form and dimensions they think
     proper."--(_Times, Sept. 6, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Modern Costume.

     "The _Long-toed Shoe_ which now figures in Bond Street was
     regulated by an Act of Parliament so long ago as the reign of
     Edward III. No person under the rank of a Knight then had a right
     to advance his toe more than four inches beyond the natural
     extremity.... If ever, in some centuries to come, the little hat,
     stuffed coat, and long-toed shoe of a modern fine Gentleman
     should be discovered in some Museum of Antiquities, or to survive
     upon the Stage, they would no doubt give birth to many learned
     doubts and extraordinary speculations. By the size of a pair of
     modern _Leather Breeches_, it will naturally be inferred that the
     present race of men were of a Colossal form. When we suppose in
     the same collection a pair of our Hussar Boots to have escaped
     the ravage of time, will not our descendants enquire by what
     descending scale of rapid decay and diminution mankind is
     hastening into the pigmy state, or the dwarf? Our Coats too, in
     which the Cotton, the Wool, the Tow, and all the _et cetera_ of
     quilting, which now form one half of our bulk, will then only
     seem the remains of the art of the virtuoso: and the curious
     stuffing he has devised to represent the gigantic proportions of
     the wearer. It ought, however, to be known, for the honour of
     this commercial nation, that it is to the spirit of justice and
     liberality of our tradesmen, that this extraordinary augmentation
     of our bulk is to be attributed. Having doubled the price of
     every article upon us, they have very fairly given us double
     measure, both in our Coats, Boots, and Breeches. The Hatter, I am
     sorry to say, is not entitled to the same commendation, for he
     has of late years perpetually diminished and circumscribed the
     little brim he allows us, in the exact proportion that he has
     advanced the price of it, so that the scarcity of felt is like
     that of bread, the less you have, the more you are to pay for it.
     I paid a guinea and a quarter for the last I bought, and I was
     ingenuously told that by the time a hat cost two guineas, it
     would exactly be the size and the weight of one. All these
     tradesmen, in a fairer sense than the _hatters_, make the _most_
     of their customers: but he to whom the nobler part of man, the
     head, is committed, diminishes in the most scandalous manner the
     protection it requires...."--(_Times, Sept. 20, 1799._)

                                                 Brobdignag.

[Illustration: "A Jean Debry" (Mr. Skeffington.)]

[Illustration: French Tailor fitting John Bull with a "Jean de Bry"]




WOMEN'S DRESS.


The earliest Lady's fashion book I can find in the British Museum, is
"The Lady's Monthly Museum," &c. "By a Society of Ladies,"--and it was
published in 1799--or just the last year of which this book takes
cognizance. But, luckily, the satirical prints supply the want, in a
great measure, although they are somewhat exaggerated. From them we
are able to see pictorially what might be hard to describe, and may be
perfectly certain that they represent "the very last thing out" at
their date of Publication. If, then, we have very little written about
female attire, in 1788, and the next year, or two, we must be content
with viewing the _veræ effigies_ of the belles of that time.

Brighton, of course, was the fashionable watering-place, for there
were the life and gaiety of the young Court, in contradistinction to
the humdrum existence led by the King, Queen, and younger branches of
the Royal Family, at Weymouth. So it will be interesting to know their
habits at this famous sea-side resort. The _Morning Post_, 18th
September 1788, has the following:--

     "The Ladies have no particular dress for the morning, but
     _huddle_ away to the bathing place, in close caps, and _gipsey
     bonnets_, so that they look like a set of wandering
     _fortune-tellers_, who have just had the opportunity of pillaging
     the contents of a _frippery warehouse_, with which they had
     bedecked themselves in haste.

     "It is to be remarked that the ladies do not atone for the
     negligence of the morning, by neatness, and elegance, during the
     rest of the day, but _shuffle on something_ by dinner time,
     covering themselves with an enormous _nondescript_ bonnet,
     which, to the confusion of all order, they afterwards think a
     proper garb for the Assembly."

In doors, the dresses were not so _outré_, as we see by the two
illustrations taken from "The School for Scandal," 1st August 1788.

That ladies copied the eccentricities of male attire, and made them
their own, we have proof in this cutting from the _Morning Post_, 15th
January 1789:--

     "Among other fashions lately introduced from Paris is the brace
     of gold watch chains now sported by our fashionable females. Some
     economical husbands may wish their wives were less imitative."

The portrait of the Duchess of York (the Princess Frederique,
Charlotte, Ulrique, Catherine, of Prussia, married to the Duke,
November 1791), shews us the indoor dress of a lady of rank in 1792.
She had a remarkably small foot, and many were the delineations of her
shoes--actual size, &c.

Of all curious freaks of fashion the following is the most
incomprehensible, yet it doubtless obtained:--

     "The fashion of dressing, at present, is to appear _prominent_,
     and the stays are made accordingly. This is holding out a wish to
     be thought in a thriving way, even without the authority of the
     _Arches Court_ of Canterbury--something in the French way--a
     philosophical desire to be _conspicuously great_ with MISCHIEF,
     without any regard to law or reason. The idea was at first sent
     forward by a few _dropsical_ Ladies."--(_Times, March 25, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The _Wapping Land-ladies_ are all at the very pinnacle of the
     fashion. Nature has given them prominences which far out-picture
     the false mountains at the West end of the town. It is not only
     the fashion of appearing six months gone, that prevails with the
     ladies--but that of not having any waists, so that, even with
     their prominences, they may be called--_No-body_." (_Times, April
     15, 1793._)

[Illustration: A Cotillion--1788.]

[Illustration: Fashions for 1788.]

[Illustration: Indoor Costumes.--1788.]

[Illustration: The Duchess of York.]

[Illustration: The Duchess.]

[Illustration: Frailties of Fashion--1793.]

[Illustration: The Height of Fashion--1793.]

[Illustration: The Toilette, No. 1.]

[Illustration: The Toilette, No. 2.]

[Illustration: The Toilette, No. 3.]

A series of prints were published which represent the amount of
indebtedness, ladies were under, to Art, to repair the ravages made by
Nature.

No. 1 shows us most graphically the "levée au matin."--Tears drop from
the eyeless socket--a yawn discloses the want of teeth, and, the
handkerchief, tied round the head, which does service for a night cap,
tells a sad tale of baldness.

In No. 2 the defect of nature is being remedied by the insertion of a
glass eye--which the subsequent illustrations prove to be very
effective.

No. 3 shows the triumph of the hairdresser's art; and, certainly, it
adds much to the ladies personal attractions.

In No. 4 false teeth are being inserted, to replace those, of which
unkind nature has robbed her.

No. 5 applies the bloom of youth to the faded cheek,--a bloom that
never yet deceived any one.

In No. 6 the Belle has finished her toilette, and is now prepared to
break all hearts.

This series is attributed to Rowlandson--and, most probably, is his
work. It is called "Six Stages of making a face.--Dedicated with
respect to Lady Archer," of which lady we shall hear more anon under
the head of "Gaming."

Waists, as may have been perceived by the last two, or three
examples, have been gradually disappearing, until, as in "The
Scarecrow," they became practically _nil_. High feathers were
beginning to come in, and, in addition to the "panache," was worn a
curious thing made of straw, very much resembling the "bristle plume"
which used to be worn in the Shakos of our Engineers, and Artillery.
In imitation of the men, the ladies' throats were swathed in
voluminous wrappers.

With very low bodices, and very high waists, came very scanty
clothing, with an absence of petticoat, a fashion which left very
little of the form to the imagination. I do not say that our English
Belles went to the extent of some of their French sisters, of having
their muslin dresses put on damp--and holding them tight to their
figures till they dried--so as absolutely to mould them to their form,
or that they ever discarded stockings, and went to balls with bare
feet, and only wearing sandals, having on but the lightest of
classical clothing--but their clothes were of the scantiest, and we
shall find that, as year succeeded year, this fashion developed, if
one can call diminution of clothing, development. Men made fun of it,
_vide_ the following from the _Times_, 12th August, 1794:--"Amongst
prudent papas, the favourite toast at this time is 'The present
fashion of our wives and daughters,' viz. _No Waste_."

There was a very pretty song, called "Shepherds, I have lost my love,
Have you seen my Anna?"--and this was parodied as follows--the music
being the same as the original song:--

[Song: SHEPHERDS, I HAVE LOST MY WAIST.

  Shep-herds, I have lost my waist, Have you seen my bo - - dy?

  Sac - ri - ficed to mo-dern taste, I'm quite a hod - dy dod - - dy.

  For fashion I that part for - sook Where sages place the bel - - - ly;

  'Tis gone, and I have not a nook For cheesecake, tart, or jel - ly.]

  "Never shall I see it more,
    Till, common sense returning,
  My body to my legs restore,
    Then I shall cease from mourning,
  Folly and fashion do prevail
    To such extremes among the fair,
  A woman's only top and tail,
    The body's banish'd God knows where!'

[Illustration: A Scarecrow--1793.]

[Illustration: Shepherds! I have lost my waist.--1794.]

[Illustration: Following the Fashion.]

[Illustration: Following the Fashion.]

That a fashion may become one person, and not another, is peculiarly
exemplified by the two following pictures by Gillray, 9th December,
1794, both called "Following the Fashion:"--

  "St. James's giving the Ton, | "Cheapside aping the Mode,
   a Soul without a Body.      |  a Body without a Soul."

       *       *       *       *       *

The tax on Hair powder was much objected to; people had been used,
for a long time, to grease, and powder their hair and wigs; and, when
the duty of a Guinea per head was passed, many left off using it. The
illustration "Leaving off Powder, or a Frugal family saving a
Guinea," was doubtless the fact in many a family. The man, in the
coloured engraving, with his "crop," to our eyes does not look so
singular, as the lady, with her "fausse chevelure" unpowdered looks so
bad, that, no wonder, ladies reverted to their own locks, as we see
in future illustrations. So also shall we see the "Cap" of the
period, the length of which is most amusingly portrayed.

The wearing of false hair is of very early origin, inasmuch as we
possess, in the British Museum, an early Egyptian wig, and, in every
age, we find women supplementing their natural attractions, by the
addition of some one else's hair. Here is a Hair-dresser's
advertisement of 1795, wherein is not only mentioned the price, &c.,
of hair, but shows the antiquity of the "Chignon," which, otherwise,
many might think of modern date.

     "TO THE LADIES.--T. BOWMAN respectfully acquaints the Ladies,
     that he has entirely removed his Shop and Manufactory to No. 102
     New Bond Street, near Brook Street. Firmly relying upon the
     future favors and recommendation of his old Customers, and
     trusting to the superiority of his articles, he has augmented his
     stock of Chignons or Braids, from 600 to near 1000, in 14 shades
     (not 20) of brown colours, besides Auburns, Flaxens, &c., and in
     8 lengths (not 50) at 10s., 14s., £1 £1 1s., £1 11s. 6d., £2 2s.,
     £3 3s., £4 4s., and £6 6s. each. Any colour matched in all the
     sizes in a minute. T. Bowman formerly gave a description of his
     Braids, but that has been copied by another and applied unto his
     own, without their possessing one requisite for which Bowman's
     Braids have been distinguished: and, not contented with slaying
     by twenties, he now kills by fifties. Bravo! Captain Boabdill,
     fifty more, kill them!!! As for the shades, what with Chinese
     hairs, mixing, and dying, he may have them (as he says) of every
     tint, but for real, natural, Brown colours. T. Bowman, with by
     far the greatest stock in the Kingdom, cannot make more than 14
     shades; he can only challenge a comparison, and pledges himself
     to make good every assertion he has at any time made. His
     Brunswick fillets, an entire new and elegant article, with curls
     complete, fit either for morning or full dress, from 7s. 6d. to
     10s. 6d. each, with Tetes, Borders, and every article in
     ornamental Hair, much cheaper than at any shop in town: having a
     very large stock, and dealing for ready money only, he has as yet
     made no advance on his old prices, although the price of hair is
     now double. Country orders, with money, or reference, duly
     observed. Chignons, &c., changed when not approved of, if not
     powdered."--(_Times, June 22, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Corsettes about six inches long, and a slight _buffon_ tucker of
     two inches high, are now the only defensive _paraphernalia_ of
     our fashionable Belles, between the necklace and the
     apron-strings.--(_Times, June 24, 1795._)

     "The annual City Assemblies, from the glowing colours which
     decorate the _belles_, may be now fairly styled _red-hot
     balls_."--(_Times, Dec. 29, 1795._)

[Illustration: Crops.]

[Illustration: A Lady putting on her Cap--1795.]

[Illustration: Characters in High Life.]

[Illustration: A Modern Belle going to the Rooms or Balls--1796.]

But Feathers were now used on the shafts levelled at the vagaries of
Fashion.

     "At all elegant Assemblies, there is a room set apart for the
     lady visitants to put their feathers on, as it is impossible to
     wear them in any carriage with a top to it. The lustres are also
     removed upon this account, and the doors are carried up to the
     height of the ceiling. A well-dressed Lady, who nods with
     dexterity, can give a friend a little tap upon the shoulder
     across the room, without incommoding the dancers. The Ladies'
     feathers are now generally carried in the sword-case, at the back
     of the carriage."--(_Times, Dec. 29, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A young lady, _only ten feet high_, was overset in one of the
     late gales of wind, in Portland Place, and the upper mast of her
     feather blown upon Hampstead Hill."

     "The _maroon fever_ has been succeeded by a very odd kind of
     light-headedness, which the physicians call the _ptereo mania_,
     or feather folly."

     "The Ladies now wear feathers exactly of their own length, so
     that a woman of fashion is twice as long upon her feet as in her
     bed."--(_Times, Dec. 30, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We saw a feather in Drury Lane Theatre, yesterday evening, that
     cost _ten_ guineas. We should have thought the _whole goose_ not
     worth the money."--(_Times, Jan. 6, 1796._)

Here is a contrivance by which "A Modern Belle going to the Rooms or
Balls" can go fully dressed, with her feathers fixed:--

     "There is to be seen in Gt. Queen Street, a Coach upon a new
     construction. The Ladies set in this well, and see between the
     spokes of the wheels. With this contrivance the fair proprietor
     is able to go quite dressed to her visits, her feathers being
     only a yard and a half high."--(_Times, Jan. 22, 1796._)

The freaks of fashion, towards the latter end of 1795, are most
curious. "Waggoner's frocks," and the "Petticoat" dress, are singular
illustrations of feminine taste. This latter is noticed in a paragraph
in the _Times_, 27th Oct. 1795. "The present fashionable dress is the
most simple imaginable. The petticoat is pinned to the Cravat, and the
arms come out at the pocket holes."

     "The only new fashions that remain for our modern belles are
     certainly puzzling and difficult. There can be nothing new, but
     going either dressed or naked."--(_Times, Jan. 27, 1796._)

The following paragraph from the _Times_ refers not only to the
general absence of dress, but also to the famous (or infamous) Miss
Chudleigh, a maid of Honour to the Queen, afterwards Duchess of
Kingston, and tells the story of how the Princess of Wales, wife of
Frederick (father of George III.), rebuked her for her nakedness.

     "One night, when the late Duchess of Kingston appeared at
     Ranelagh in a dress which may be compared with the undress of
     some of our fashionable _belles_, a _handkerchief_ was thrown to
     her, not from the Prince, but the Princess of Wales."--(_Times,
     March 5, 1796._)

"Lady Godiva's Rout, or Peeping Tom spying out Pope Joan," is by
Gillray, 12th March 1796, and is a scathing satire on the extremely
_decolletée_, and diaphonous, dresses of the time. The fair one, whose
uncovered bosom so attracts the candle snuffer, is intended to
represent Lady Georgiana Gordon, afterwards Duchess of Bedford.

"High Change in Bond Street" is by Gillray (27th March 1796), and is a
most amusing caricature of the then prevalent fashions both of men and
women. The "Bond Street Loungers," are depicted to perfection.

[Illustration: Waggoners Frock-or-No Bodys of 1795.]

[Illustration: The Fashion.--Dec{r}. 1795.]

[Illustration: Fashionable Modesty.--1796.]

[Illustration: High Change in Bond Street--1796.]

     "At the late Fandango Ball in Dublin, a certain Lady of Fashion
     appeared in the following very whimsical dress:--Flesh coloured
     pantaloons, over which was a gauze petticoat, tucked up at each
     side in drapery, so that both thighs could be seen; the binding
     of the petticoat was tied round the neck, and her arms were
     through the pocket holes. Her head dress was a man's pearl
     coloured stocking, the foot hanging down at the back of the head
     like a lappet, and in the heel of the stocking was stuck a large
     diamond pin, the _tout ensemble_ not less novel, than
     ludicrous."--(_Times, May 26, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_Whalebone-Veils_ are worn by all the fashionable dames at
     Weymouth. This invention is evidently borrowed from the head of a
     one horse chaise."--(_Times, August 27, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_High heels_ are once more the rage; there is, however, no
     scarcity of _flats_. During the reign of the _flat sole_, the
     Ladies make more faux-pas than ever, so that we need entertain no
     apprehensions for them, if they chuse to get upon stilts. What
     with high heels and high feathers, the _better half_ of many an
     honest man is just one third part of herself."--(_Times, August
     27, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Fashion would be its own murderer, if it were to be constant
     and permanent. The last year's dress seems to abdicate entirely;
     even the waist is walking down towards the hip; and three
     straps, with buckles in front, have abridged so much of the
     usurpation of the petticoat. One cannot see so many Ladies of
     high ton with the straps over the bosom, without thinking how
     much better they might have been employed over the
     shoulders."--(_Times, Aug. 27, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Before the waist is quite again in fashion, and while the thing
     exists (which will soon be incredible), we set down the
     measurement of a petticoat in the summer of 1796, which for a
     middling-sized woman is five foot and an inch."--(_Times, Nov. 4,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It would not be easily believed by our Great Grandmothers, that
     their lovely daughters cannot make their appearance without a
     dozen combs in their heads, and as many false curls and cushions.
     The victory over black pins is complete."--(_Times, May 30,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Horse Hair has risen near 50 per cent. since Wigs have become so
     much the rage."--(_Times, April 27, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The women at Paris are every day divesting themselves of some of
     the customary articles of dress, and the rage for _nudity_ is so
     great, that it is apprehended, even by the Parisian Journalists,
     they will shortly have the effrontery to present themselves to
     the public eye in a state of pure nature. One of them appeared a
     few days since in the Champs Elysées, in a simple robe of spotted
     black gauze, and shewed so much that little was left to guess.
     The spectators were struck with indignation at this flagrant
     violation of decorum, and she was compelled to make a shameful
     and precipitate retreat."--(_Times, June 18, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An Artist has advertised that he makes up worn out Umbrellas
     into fashionable Gypsey Bonnets. The transition is so easy, that
     he is scarce to be praised for the invention.

     "The _Gypsey Bonnet_ is commonly worn by the Lancashire
     Witches."--(_Times, July 7, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We are very happy to see the waists of our fair country women
     walking downwards by degrees towards the hip. But, as we are a
     little acquainted with the laws of increasing velocity in
     fashionable gravitation, we venture to express, thus early in
     their descent, a hope that they will _stop there_."--(_Times,
     April 15, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_Straw_ in the head-dress, according to the laws and immemorial
     customs of the stage, denotes the unsoundness of the brain it
     covers. Several of those useful and respectable young men, who
     make the campaign of Bond Street, have thought proper to invest
     their temples with the sacred symbols, and wear straw hats to
     give notice of their light-headedness."--(_Times, July 4, 1799._)

The Censor could also be severe on the harmless "Reticule."

     "In the present age of political innovation, it is curious to
     observe the great veneration for antiquity which prevails in all
     our dresses and fashions. Queen Elizabeth's ruffs decorate our
     blooming belles; and our beaux are puckered and stuffed on the
     shoulders _à la Richard the Third_. But what is still more
     remarkable, is the total abjuration of the female pocket. Those
     heavy appendages are no more worn at present than keys at the
     girdles. Every fashionable fair carries her purse in her workbag.
     Her money and her industry lie cheek by jowl: and her gambling
     gains lie snug by her housewife. Her handkerchiefs, her toothpick
     case, her watch, and her keys, if she has any, are the constant
     concomitants of her visits; and while no part of the symmetry of
     her shape is altered or concealed by the old-fashioned panniers,
     she has the pleasure of laying everything that belongs to her
     upon the table wherever she goes."--(_Times, Nov. 9, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A dashing Lady of Fashion, inconvenienced by the new custom of
     carrying a bag with her handkerchief, smelling-bottle, purse,
     &c., &c., went to a large party the other evening, attended by a
     Page, who was employed to present the articles as they might be
     wanted. The Page was well qualified to go through the fatigues of
     office, being well-made, active, and just one and twenty. Should
     the example be imitated, Pages will probably be more in request
     than waiting-women."--(_Times, Dec. 7, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "If the present fashion of nudity continues its career, the
     Milliners must give way to the Carvers, and the most elegant
     _fig-leaves_ will be all the mode.

     "The fashion of _false bosoms_ has at least this utility, that it
     compels our fashionable fair to wear _something_."--(_Times,
     Dec. 11, 1799._)

With which most pungent criticism, we will take our leave of lady's
_dress_.




NAVY AND ARMY.


No history of England, that I know of, has ever given us so graphic a
description of the ways and means for procuring men for the Navy, as
the Newspapers of the time, and in this, as in many other things,
their help is invaluable.

When we find from what classes the Navy was recruited, we wonder at
what the men went through, without much murmuring; and, if their very
moderate, and just, demands, had been met in a conciliatory spirit, or
even, officially investigated, instead of being pooh-poohed, and
shelved--there would have been no mutiny at the Nore, nor elsewhere.

When afloat, sailors were kept in subjection, or as it was termed,
discipline, by brutality, foul language, and a plentiful application
of the lash, to be recouped by almost unlimited license, whilst on
shore, or, for the matter of that, when afloat, if at home in harbour.
When the _Royal George_ went down, there were 200 women on board, and
in Dibdin's song of "Wapping Old Stairs," the heroine plaintively
reminds her temporary lover thus--

  "When _I passed a whole fortnight between decks with you_,
  Did I e'er give a kiss, Tom, to one of the Crew?"

When the War with France broke out, it was hardly to be imagined that
Fishermen, and Merchant seamen, would volunteer to leave their quiet
occupation, to be bullied by petty, and other officers; to be triced
up, and lashed unmercifully, for even a venial fault; to be no better
paid, nor fed than they were already; and to have an extra chance of
death in a Naval engagement, even if the English were victorious, or
the certainty of semi-starvation in a French prison, if captured. So
the State, wanting food for slaughter, stretched out its strong hand,
and took it, by means of the pressgang. I shall have to recount a long
list of "severe," or "hot," presses--and, first of all, in order that
we may perfectly understand what a "press" was, and so thoroughly
identify ourselves with the position, let us see the very minute, and
vivid, description of _Smollett_, in "Roderick Random."

[Illustration: My Poll & my Partner Joe.--1796.]

"As I crossed Tower Wharf, a squat, tawny fellow, with a hanger by his
side, and a cudgel in his hand, came up to me calling, 'Yo ho!
brother, you must come along with me.' As I did not like his
appearance, instead of answering his salutation, I quickened my pace,
in hopes of ridding myself of his company; upon which, he whistled
aloud, and immediately another sailor appeared before me, who laid
hold of me by the collar, and began to drag me along. Not being of a
humour to relish such treatment, I disengaged myself of the assailant,
and, with one blow of my cudgel, laid him motionless on the ground;
and, perceiving myself surrounded in a trice, by ten or a dozen more,
exerted myself with such dexterity and success, that some of my
opponents were fain to attack me with drawn Cutlasses; and, after an
obstinate engagement, in which I received a large wound on my head,
and another on my left cheek, I was disarmed, taken prisoner, and
carried on board a pressing tender; where, after being pinioned like a
malefactor, I was thrust down into the hold, among a parcel of
miserable wretches, the sight of whom well nigh distracted me.

"As the commanding officer had not humanity enough to order my wounds
to be dressed, and I could not use my own hands, I desired one of my
fellow-captives who was unfettered, to take a handkerchief out of my
pocket, and tie it round my head, to stop the bleeding. He pulled out
my handkerchief ('tis true), but, instead of applying it to the use
for which I designed it, went to the grating of the hatchway, and,
with astonishing composure, sold it before my face to a bum boat
woman, then on board, for a quart of gin, with which he treated my
companions, regardless of my circumstances, and entreaties.

"I complained bitterly of this robbery, to the midshipman on deck,
telling him, at the same time, that, unless my wounds were dressed, I
should bleed to death. But compassion was a weakness of which no man
could justly accuse this person, who squirted a mouthful of dissolved
tobacco upon me through the gratings, told me 'I was a mutinous dog,
and that I might die, and be damned.' Finding there was no other
remedy, I appealed to patience, and laid up this usage in my memory,
to be recalled at a fitter season. In the meantime, loss of blood,
vexation, and want of food, contributed, with the noisome stench of
the place, to throw me into a swoon; out of which I was recovered by
the tar who stood centinel over us, who at the same time regaled me
with a draught of flip, and comforted me with the hopes of being put
on board the _Thunder_ next day, where I should be freed of my
handcuffs, and cured of my wounds by the doctor."

Now let us see how the press worked--

     "The Press in the River Thames, for the three last days, has been
     very severe. Five or six hundred seamen have been laid hold
     of."--(_Times, February 18th, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Wednesday night the press was very hot on the river Thames;
     all the ships, both homeward, and outward, bound, were stripped
     of their hands; not excepting two outward bound East Indiamen,
     which were to have sailed yesterday."--(_Times, March 9, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The press has been so hot, for seamen, since the order of Friday
     last, that three Tenders, full of men, have been dispatched from
     the Tower to the 'Sandwich' guardship at the Nore."--(_Times,
     March 27, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A hot press has, for the last two nights, been carried on from
     London bridge to the Nore; protections are disregarded, and
     almost all the vessels in the River have been stripped of their
     hands."--(_Times, April 26, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The sailors are so scarce, that upwards of 60 sail of merchants
     ships, bound to the West Indies, and other places, are detained
     in the River, with their ladings on board; seven outward bound
     East Indiamen are likewise detained at Gravesend, for want of
     sailors to man them."--(_Times, Jan. 7, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The number of seamen to be voted for the service of the present
     year, including 12,000 marines, will be 85,000 men."--(_Times,
     Jan. 29, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There was a smart press on Monday, on the river, for seamen,
     and, in many of the avenues to the town, several hundreds were
     picked up, and put on board the receiving ship at the
     Tower."--(_Times, April 2, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

                                            "Poole, Nov. 30.

     "This morning arrived in Steedland Bay, the 'Maria,' from
     Newfoundland, having some passengers on board, besides the crew;
     the officers of the impress service expecting to meet some
     resistance, had called for military assistance, and 20 soldiers,
     armed, went on board the tender, which went down the harbour, to
     meet the vessel; when coming alongside, and finding the people
     obstinate, orders were given to the soldiers to fire, which they
     did; the pilot (then at the helm), and two other men, were killed
     on the spot, and seven others dangerously wounded, one of whom is
     since dead. Lieutenants Phillips and Glover, with all who were on
     board the tender, are taken into custody, and the whole town is
     in the greatest commotion."--(_Times, Dec. 3, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "That part of Mr. Pitt's plan for manning the navy, which
     recommends to the Magistrates to take cognizance of all idle, and
     disorderly people, who have no visible means of livelihood, may,
     certainly, procure a great number of able bodied men who are
     lurking about the metropolis, if properly enforced. But
     experience teaches, that, unless the Magistrates see that their
     _Runners_ do justice to the public, this salutary measure may be
     in a great measure defeated, from the interest which the
     _Runners_ are known to have, in _nursing_ those vagabonds, which
     the law enacts should be laid hold of."--(_Times, Feb. 11,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A meeting on the subject of the Navy was held last week at
     Newcastle, the result of which was, the choosing of a Committee,
     three of whom are to confer with Mr. Dundas--'to recommend the
     suspension of the impress, to send into actual service the gangs
     and crews of the tenders, (amounting, it is said, from seven to
     ten thousand,) to increase the wages of seamen in the navy, and
     to pay half of it, monthly, for the support of their
     families.'"--(_Times, Feb. 11, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An Embargo is about to take place on all the shipping in our
     ports, which it is thought will last SIX WEEKS, or until 20,000
     seamen are procured. The embargo was to take place as last
     night."--(_Times, Feb. 19, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There was a very hot press in the river, on Friday night last,
     when several hundred able seamen were procured. One of the gangs,
     in attempting to board a Liverpool trader, were resisted by the
     crew, when a desperate affray took place, in which many of the
     former were thrown overboard, and the Lieutenant who boarded
     them, killed by a shot from the vessel."--(_Times, June 9,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A very general search for seamen has taken place in the river,
     for several nights past; such is the greatest want of hands to
     mix on board the men-of-war now ready at the Nore, Chatham,
     Sheerness," &c.--(_Times, June 18, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Press gallies are out in the river, night and day, in order
     to pick up men; the demand for seamen being still very great from
     the vast quantities of shipping now employed in Government
     service."--(_Times, Aug. 29, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "One of the Juries that was impannelled on the Coroner's Inquest,
     to examine the body of one of the unfortunate men that was
     killed in the affray that took place between the pressgang, and
     the sailors, belonging to the 'Maria' of Poole, have returned
     their verdict of _Wilful Murder_ against the two Lieutenants of
     the Navy."--(_Times, Dec. 5, 1794._)

The following instructive little story will shew how mutinies were
made:--

     "The mutiny which existed several days on board the 'Culloden' of
     74 guns, and which, it is said, originated in the wish of the
     crew to have the ship docked, previous to her sailing for the
     West Indies, was, on Wednesday, settled by an order from the
     Admiralty in the following manner:--'That several Captains were
     to go on board and inform the crew, unless they immediately
     returned to their duty, the "Royal George" of 110 guns, and
     "Queen," of 98 guns, would directly be laid alongside them.' They
     were allowed half an hour to consider the matter. The officers,
     and others, who chose to leave the ship, were at liberty so to
     do. The ship's company several times wanted to make terms, which
     could not possibly be complied with: in about twenty minutes they
     all agreed to return to their duty; 12 of the ringleaders were
     instantly seized, and put in irons, and will no doubt be tried by
     a Court Martial for the same. During the time the ship was in
     this mutinous state, the crew flogged several marines because
     they would not join them, and would have punished the whole, had
     they gone below."--(_Times, Dec. 13, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The cause of the mutiny, on board the 'Culloden,' was briefly
     this. In coming into Spithead, the 'Sampson,' and 'Culloden,'
     both run a-ground. The former was a good deal damaged: the latter
     lost only her rudder, which could easily be repaired at Spithead,
     but the 'Sampson' was obliged to be carried into dock. Some of
     the seamen of the 'Culloden,' in a mutinous manner, expressed
     their doubts of the safety of the ship: and, upon being
     remonstrated with, insisted upon going into harbour."--(_Times,
     Dec. 16, 1794._)

Which were right, the Sailors, or the Admiralty?

Here is a curious case, which shows the want of men to man the fleet,
and how unscrupulously even magistrates lent themselves against all
justice, and equity, in helping to kidnap men for the use of the Navy
Services:--

     "PUBLIC OFFICE, BOW STREET.--A master bricklayer, of the name of
     Whitehead, brought his apprentice before the sitting magistrate,
     on a charge of having stolen a scaffolding board, value under
     _ninepence_: he had his choice, either to enlist as a soldier, or
     to be sent on board the fleet: to both of which he objected. The
     Magistrate then ordered a letter to be written to the Regulating
     Captain, Tower Hill, to have him sent on board the
     Navy."--(_Times, Jan. 5, 1795._)

On this, one of the spectators addressed Mr. Bond, and told him he was
acting improperly.

     "Who are you?" says Mr. B----. "I am a Mr. Thompson, a Member of
     the House of Commons for Evesham: and I tell you that you act
     illegally." "Do you tell me, sitting here as a magistrate, that I
     act illegally?" "I do: for the boy has committed a crime, he is
     not to be punished by you, or any other justice: it is to the
     laws of the land, and to them alone, that he is amenable: and I
     say, that it is a violation of the liberty of the subject." Mr.
     Bond observed, that the King wanted men: and did not Mr. Thompson
     think that it was proper to procure those for him, who had
     forfeited their liberty? Mr. T. replied, that he knew that the
     King _did_ want men, but that that was a very improper mode of
     coming at them. Mr. Bond then observed, that probably Mr. T.
     might investigate it in the House of Commons: but whether he did
     or did not, he should act as he thought proper for that time. He
     then sent for Major Leeson, and had him enlisted. Mr. Thompson
     signified as much to him, as that it should be brought before the
     House."

(On Monday, 5th Jan., the matter was introduced in a speech of Mr.
Thompson's, on the Habeas Corpus Bill, but nothing was done.)

Jack did, occasionally, get some prize money, but nothing ever came up
to the "Hermione" in 1762, when each ordinary seaman had about £800
for his share; but when we look at the disparity between the Captain's
and Sailor's share, we can enter into the spirit of the Sailor's
prayer, before an engagement, that the shots might be apportioned,
like the prize money,--the greater part among the officers.

     "By the determination of the Lord Chancellor in favour of the
     captors of the _St. Jago_ Register ship, Admiral Gell will get,
     as his proportion, near £100,000 prize money. All the captains of
     his fleet will divide about £30,000, and so downwards in
     proportion. The precise value of the _St. Jago_, Spanish ship,
     retaken in April 1793, from the French, which the Lords of Appeal
     adjudged to the captors, on Thursday evening last, is
     £935,000."--(_Times, Feb. 4, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The first payment of the immense St. Jago prize is commenced,
     Captain Sir A. Douglas having received his share. The following
     is the declared proportion of the specie only: Each Captain's
     share, £13,920; Lieutenant's share, £910; Warrant officer's
     share, £612; Petty officer's share, £140; Foremast-man's share,
     £26. Besides two seventh's shares of the whole in reserve, till
     the question, whether the _Boyne_, and _Powerful_, have a right
     to share with the Squadron. The above statement is independent of
     the valuable cargo, and bullion, which are yet to be shared. The
     Admiral's shares are not yet declared."--(_Times, March 21,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Saturday, the 26th inst., the sailors on board the _Sea Horse_
     frigate, had 2800 dollars served out to them at Portsmouth, and
     leave of absence for 48 hours' recreation on shore. This ship
     shares the whole of the Spanish prizes taken by her, and carried
     into Portsmouth. Their cargoes consist principally of about
     300,000 dollars and gold doubloons, and about 120,000 raw hides,
     tallow," &c.--(_Times, Dec. 2, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Spanish prize, taken by the _Raven_ brig, one of Admiral
     Earl St. Vincent's squadron, which was sent home, now lies at
     Deptford, where she is strongly guarded, and no persons suffered
     to go on board, till she has gone through a complete search, as
     it is suspected some other valuables, besides the Platina, of
     which 4000 ounces have been taken out and sold, are hid. Platina
     is a metal of the colour of silver, and about one eighth heavier
     than gold. None has ever been seen in Europe, at least in any
     quantity, but in Spain where it is consigned to the Crown, from
     South America."--(_Times, Sept. 20, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We stated several days since, that it had been determined by Mr.
     Pitt to alter, very materially, the Bill now before the House of
     Commons, for manning the navy. The principal alteration will be
     the taking off the burthen on ship-owners, of finding men before
     their ships can clear out; instead of which they are to advance a
     certain proportion of money, and Commissioners are to be
     stationed, at the out-ports, to find men out of this fund. The
     measure proposed is as follows,--that each Port shall, according
     to the number of seamen belonging to it, raise a certain number
     of men--that these men shall be fixed by Ballot--that those who
     have enrolled themselves to be balloted, shall receive a
     certificate of having done so, which shall secure them against
     pressing--that no man shall be permitted to serve on board a
     merchant ship, under a very heavy penalty, without such a
     certificate, that no ship shall be suffered to proceed from any
     Port, till the number of men required from the Port shall be
     raised; and that those who do not enrol themselves, shall be
     liable to be apprehended."--(_Times, Feb. 18, 1795._)

As we see by the following paragraphs, the parishes offered bounties
to fill up their quota of sailors:--

     "The Parish of St. James', Westminster, having, in a public
     manner, signified their wish, to raise _twenty-five men_,
     pursuant to the statute, to serve in His Majesty's Navy, had, by
     Wednesday last, completed that number: and the g-officer, in the
     course of the afternoon, examined them, and found them all
     extremely proper for His Majesty's service: and, on Thursday,
     they were examined and certified, by the Parochial Magistrates,
     when the men requesting to have £7, the third part of the
     bounty-money, advanced to buy slops, bedding, and for other
     purposes, it was immediately complied with."--(_Times, Apr. 7,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     (Advt.) "Ancient and Loyal City of Westminster.

     "At a MEETING of the Vestries, Church-wardens, Overseers, and the
     principal inhabitants, of the Parishes of St. Margaret, and St.
     John the Evangelist, Westminster, in St. Margaret's Vestry Room,
     on Thursday, the 2nd day of April 1795, it was agreed to give a
     bounty of Twenty-five Guineas each to Twenty Men, to be raised
     for the Naval Service of His Majesty King George, in defence of
     Old England. All able-bodied men, willing to serve in His
     Majesty's Navy, are desired to apply, from the hours of nine in
     the morning till four in the afternoon, at the Vestry Room, in
     St. Margaret's Churchyard, Westminster, this, and the following
     days, Sundays excepted. To any man, who shall be approved by the
     Regulating Officer, part of the Bounty will be immediately paid,
     on his enrolment, either to himself or to his wife and family, or
     to any other person he may appoint to receive the same, and the
     remainder upon his being mustered on board of ship. He will have
     an opportunity of leaving a power for part of his wages and prize
     money, to be paid monthly for the support of his family, who will
     also be under the care, and protection of a kind and benevolent
     parish: and if his conduct is approved, he will have the
     preference, on his return, of any employment the Parish can give
     him. None need apply but able-bodied men. No volunteer, who shall
     enter as above, can be taken out of His Majesty's Service, but
     for a criminal matter. _N.B._ Persons enrolled, are not liable to
     serve more than three months after the War, if arrived in any
     port of Great Britain.

                       "By Order, T. Drake, _Vestry Clerk_."

     --(_Times, Apr. 9, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "From the returns of the Regulating Officers, received at the
     Admiralty, it appears that on the average, about half the men for
     the navy, are likely to be raised throughout the counties, and
     that the deficiency will be paid in money. The average price
     given in the Eastern Counties is £25 per man; so that the fine of
     £10 added to it, will make the parishes defaulting, advance £35,
     in lieu of a man, for every 68 assessed houses."--(_Times, Apr.
     9, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A change is about to take place in the Naval Uniform. _Epaulets_
     are to be worn--two by Flag Officers, and these to mark their
     rank; two likewise by Post Captains, demonstrative of their rank;
     one, on the right shoulder, by Masters, and Commanders, and one
     on the left by Lieutenants."--(_Times, June 5, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The City of London has now made up its quota of 5704 Seamen,
     under the Act which laid an embargo on all outward bound vessels,
     until 20,000 men were raised for the use of the Navy. Among this
     number are about 1600 able seamen, who count each for two
     ordinary seamen. The expenses of raising them in London, are
     found to be much more moderate than the men raised in the country
     ports."--(_Times, Sept. 24, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "One _Samuel Caradise_, who had been committed to the House of
     Correction, in Kendal, and there confined as a vagabond, until
     put on board a King's ship, agreeable to the late Act, sent for
     his wife, the evening before his intended departure. He was in a
     cell, and she spoke to him through the iron door. After which, he
     put his hand underneath, and she with a mallet, and chissel,
     concealed for the purpose, struck off a finger and thumb, to
     render him unfit for His Majesty's service."--(_Times, Nov. 3,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "All superfluous ornaments to the heads, and sterns, of King's
     ships are, we understand, in future to be discontinued. Instead
     of a figure at the head, a _scroll_ is to be substituted, and the
     sterns are to be as plain as possible."--(_Times, Sept. 9,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Navy Board have given orders, that ships of war shall be
     ornamented with carved work at their heads, and sterns, as
     formerly, which mode, some months since, had been
     suspended."--(_Times, Oct. 6, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Anecdote of Captain Drury of the 'Powerful.'

     "About an hour before the action with the Dutch Fleet, he
     assembled his men, and thus addressed them:--'You are a set of
     damned, blackguard, mutinous, rascals, and you know I think so of
     you all: we shall soon see whether you have any courage: I have
     only this to say to you, you see the Dutch ship that we shall
     soon be along-side: if you don't silence her in 40 minutes, I
     shall know what to think of you.--Now return to your quarters.'
     Turning to the Master, he said, 'Do you take care that these
     rascals, may not have to complain that they were not near
     enough.' In 20 minutes the Dutch ship struck her colours, and the
     'Powerful' bore away to assist the 'Venerable.' After the action,
     the Captains of the fore-castle came aft, and asked Capt. Drury
     if he still considered them a rascally set? 'No,' said Capt. D.,
     'your behaviour has perfectly satisfied me.' 'Will you then shake
     hands?' said the men, which he did most heartily, and assured
     them that he should never reproach them again for what had
     passed, and would, on his part, entirely forget that anything had
     ever happened. They then gave him three cheers, and, now, Capt.
     Drury is almost idolized by the crew."--(_Times, Nov. 16, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The French Government has ordered 16 sail of the line, 18
     frigates, and 12 ships of war of a smaller size to be built. Good
     news this for Old England! It saves us the trouble and expense of
     building them ourselves, as they are sure to find their way into
     our ports."--(_Times, Nov. 26, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lord Camelford.

     "By the Leeward Island Mail, which arrived yesterday, we have
     received some very circumstantial advices of what passed in the
     West Indies, respecting Lord Camelford, who was tried by a Court
     Martial, on the 13th of January last, at Fort Royal Bay, for the
     murder of Lieut. Peterson, and acquitted.

                               "Antigua, _January 23, 1798_.

     "On the 13th inst. died, at English Harbour, Charles Peterson,
     Esq., first Lieutenant of H.M. ship _Perdrix_. This event was
     occasioned by a dispute between the deceased, and Lord Camelford,
     upon the right of commanding at English Harbour. Lord Camelford
     commanded H.M. sloop-of-war the _Favourite_, by virtue of an
     order, or warrant, from Admiral Harvey; and Mr. Peterson, though
     an older Lieutenant than Lord Camelford, had lately served on
     board that ship under his command, but, having been removed to
     the _Perdrix_, and Lord Camelford not having a commission as
     Master, and Commander, Mr. Peterson, being then at English
     Harbour, supposed himself to be the Commanding Officer, and,
     under that idea, issued some orders to Lord Camelford, which were
     answered by other orders from Lord C. to Mr. P. Upon Mr.
     Peterson's refusal to obey these orders, a Lieutenant with a
     party of Marines were sent to put him under arrest, and Mr. P.
     prepared for resistance, and ordered the crew of the _Perdrix_ to
     arm in his defence. But, before any conflict took place, Lord
     Camelford arrived, went up to Mr. P., demanded if he would obey
     his orders, or not, and, upon being answered in the negative, he
     immediately shot him dead upon the spot. An inquest was taken by
     the Coroner, the next day; but the Jury, not being willing to
     take upon themselves the determination of the question upon whom
     the command at English Harbour had devolved, found only that the
     deceased had been shot by Lord Camelford, in consequence of a
     mutiny."--(_Times, April 11, 1798._)

Extract of a letter from an Officer in H.M. ship _Vengeance_, dated
Antigua, February 9:--

     "Lord Camelford appears to me to be a new character in his
     _Class_. He is very severe in carrying on duty; seldom ties up a
     man but he gets six or seven dozen lashes, which is a more severe
     punishment in this country than what is produced by giving the
     same number in a northern climate.

     "Although his Lordship is a Master, and Commander, he makes use
     of no swabs (gold shoulder knots), but still appears in a
     Lieutenant's uniform. His dress is indeed extremely remarkable;
     _all the hair is shaved off his head_, on which he wears a
     monstrous large _Gold-laced cocked-hat_. He is dressed in a
     Lieutenant's plain coat, the buttons of which are as green with
     verdigrease, as the ship's bottom; and, with this, all the rest
     of his dress corresponds."

       *       *       *       *       *

     _Extract of a private letter._

                                     "Cronstadt, _August 2_.

     "Our countrymen who have been employed at Revel, in conducting the
     embarkation of the Russian troops, have been honoured with great
     marks of attention from the Emperor, and his Family.

     "His Imperial Majesty requested the _Nile_ lugger, in which
     Captain Popham went to Petersburgh, to be brought up close to his
     palace at Peterhoff, where he went on board, accompanied by only
     one Nobleman. The lugger was immediately got under weigh, and,
     there being a fine breeze of wind, His Majesty was highly
     surprised, and gratified, at the swiftness of her sailings. After
     a two hour's cruise, he was landed again at the palace, when the
     lugger gave him a royal salute.

     "It appears the account he gave of the English vessel had greatly
     excited the curiosity of the rest of the Royal Family, as, next
     day, Captain Popham was honoured with the company of the Empress,
     the Emperor, Four Princesses, and Three Princes, with their
     retinue, when they were, of course, treated with a sail, at which
     they were highly delighted, and, with great condescension,
     partook of some ship beef, and biscuit. The Emperor was
     particularly attentive to everything on board the lugger,
     visiting every part of her, and, when the sailors were hoisting
     the sails, he insisted on helping for once, to set the sails of a
     vessel belonging to his gracious Ally, and actually hauled the
     rope with the men. The Empress begged that the crew would sing
     'God save the King,' which was instantly complied with, to Her
     Majesty's entire satisfaction.

     "Captain Popham was presented by the Emperor, with an elegant
     snuff-box set with diamonds, and with a valuable ring from Her
     Imperial Majesty. His Majesty has likewise knighted Captain
     Popham, conferring on him the Order of St. John of Jerusalem.
     Lieutenant Pratt, Captain Popham's Assistant in this business,
     has also been presented with a gold snuff-box, from the Emperor,
     and a handsome gold watch and chain, from the Empress."--(_Times,
     August 28, 1799._)

Was the under-mentioned lady the veritable heroine of the ballad of
"Billy Taylor?"

     "There is at present in the Middlesex Hospital, a young, and
     delicate female, who calls herself Miss T--lb--t, and who is said
     to be related to some families of distinction; her story is very
     singular:--At an early period of her life, having been deprived
     by the villany of a trustee, of a sum of money bequeathed her by
     a deceased relation of high rank, she followed the fortunes of a
     young Naval officer, to whom she was attached, and personated a
     common sailor before the mast, during a cruise in the North Seas.
     In consequence of a lover's quarrel, she quitted the ship and
     assumed for a time the military character: but her passion for
     the sea prevailing, she returned to her favourite element, did
     good service, and received a severe wound, on board Earl St.
     Vincent's ship, on the glorious 14th of February, and again bled
     in the cause of her country, in the engagement off Camperdown. On
     this last occasion her knee was shattered, and an amputation is
     likely to ensue. This spirited female, we understand, receives a
     pension of £20, from an illustrious Lady, which is about to be
     doubled." (_Times, Nov. 4, 1799._)

In 1793, the war with France, which was, on and off, to last so long,
was an accomplished fact--and one of the first notices thereof, at
least, pictorially, makes fun of the good intentions of the patriotic
ladies of England, towards the personal comforts of the army.

[Illustration: British Ladies Patriotic Presents to the Army.--1793.]

Men were most urgently wanted--but it had hardly come to the
following:--

     "Major Hanger has made a proposal to Government, rather of a
     singular nature, to raise a corps of men, from among the
     convicts. He has received his answer, that, at present,
     Government can give no countenance to his application." But it
     did come.--(_Times, March 23, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We have already mentioned that a number of convicts in Newgate,
     under sentence of transportation, have within the last few days,
     been permitted to enter into marching regiments. The crown
     debtors in the various prisons, have received similar
     offers."--(_Times, Oct. 9, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The French Emigrants, who are to serve in the legion now
     assembling at Jersey, have received orders to keep themselves
     ready, at a short notice, to repair to their destinations. About
     400, have enlisted in town, and between 500, and 600, at
     _Jersey_."--(_Times, Jan. 29, 1794._)

Here is a very early Notice of Volunteers:--

     "We are happy to hear that the Grand Juries of the different
     counties, intend to recommend the forming Volunteer Companies, to
     augment the _Militia_. The Grand Jury, at Reading, greatly
     approved this measure, and the sum of 14, or £1500, has already
     been subscribed, at that place, for carrying it into
     effect."--(_Times, March 8, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The following are the terms for raising Independent Companies.
     For a Company, a Lieutenant on full pay is to raise fifty men,
     including three corporals, to be allowed five guineas levy money,
     and the pay of three serjeants, and two drummers, during the
     levy, and to receive £150 from the successor to his lieutenancy.
     A Lieutenant on half pay, to raise the like number, but to be
     allowed eight guineas levy-money. For a Lieutenancy, an Ensign on
     full pay is to raise twenty men, including a corporal, and to be
     allowed five guineas levy-money with the pay of a sergeant, and a
     drummer, during the levy. An Ensign on half-pay, to raise the
     like number, but to be allowed seven guineas
     levy-money."--(_Times, March 7, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The following, we understand to be the heads of the plan to be
     proposed for the consideration of the Lords Lieutenants of the
     different counties, for the internal defence of the Kingdom.

     "1st. The Militia is to be augmented by Volunteer Companies, or
     by an additional number of privates to each company, in the
     option of His Majesty.

     "2ndly. Volunteer Companies are to be formed in particular towns:
     in those particularly situated on the sea coast, for purposes of
     local defence.

     "3rdly. A certain number of soldiers for each Regiment: to act as
     pioneers, as well as persons in different parishes, and
     districts, not attached immediately to the Militia, to act in the
     same capacity: and certain places to be appointed for their
     rendezvous, particularly upon the sea coast; but these to be
     ready to assist the regular forces upon every emergency.

     "4thly. Volunteer Troops of Fencible Cavalry are to be raised,
     consisting of from 50, to 80, men per troop, which are liable to
     serve only during the war, and within the Kingdom: the Officers
     are to have temporary rank only, and are not to be entitled to
     half pay: arms, clothing, and accoutrements, to be furnished by
     the Government, but the levy-money to be found by the persons
     raising such troops, or troops, as also the horses; for the
     horses, however, they are to be allowed the Government contract
     price. The person who, upon the above terms, raises two troops,
     is to have the temporary rank of Major; he who raises four, that
     of Lieutenant Colonel; and he who raises six, that of Colonel.

     "Fifthly, Bodies of Cavalry are, besides, to be raised within
     particular districts, or counties, to consist of the Gentlemen
     and Yeomanry, or such persons as they shall recommend, according
     to a plan to be approved of by the King, or by the Lords
     Lieutenant, under authority from His Majesty; the Officers are to
     receive Commissions from His Majesty, and the Muster Rolls are
     also to be approved of by His Majesty, or by the Lords
     Lieutenant, at particular periods to be hereafter fixed; no levy
     money is to be given, and the horses are to be provided by the
     Gentry or Yeomanry who compose the particular corps; the arms and
     accoutrements, are, however, to be supplied at the public
     expense. Such corps are to be exercised only at particular times,
     fixed by warrant from His Majesty, or by the approbation of the
     Lords Lieutenant. They are to be liable to be embodied, or called
     out of their respective counties, only by special direction from
     His Majesty, in case of actual appearance of invasion; and to be
     liable to be called upon by order from His Majesty, or by the
     Lords Lieutenant, or Sheriff of the county, to act within the
     county, or in the adjacent counties, for the suppression of riots
     and tumults. In either case, they are to receive pay as cavalry,
     and are to be liable to the provisions of the Mutiny
     Bill."--(_Times, Mar. 13, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     _Qualifications._--"The officers of the London Militia, according
     to the Bill now in the House of Lords, are to be qualified
     according to the Act of the 26th George III. Cap. 107, Sec. 8.

                                 Real or Personal.

       Field Officers            £300    £5,000
       Captains                   150     2,500
       Lieutenants                 30       750
       Ensign                      20       400

     One Moiety in the City, the other in any part of the Kingdom
     seised of an estate, either in law, or equity, the claim or grant
     whereof was originally made for 20 years, of the same annual
     amount, to be a qualification."--(_Times, June 26, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An extraordinary circumstance lately happened to a sheriff's
     officer, in the neighbourhood of Covent Garden. Hot with _juniper
     berry_, not the _Tuscan Grape_, he had an idea of beating the
     _Carmagnols_; and in consequence, going to a recruiting party in
     Bow Street, said he would _enlist_. The Captain of the party gave
     him a shilling, in the usual phrase of _His Majesty's name_:--he
     said he must have more:--a guinea was given him in His Majesty's
     name, to serve so and so; he took it, and departed. The matter
     thus rested for five or six days, when he came back to return the
     money, which he said he had taken _in a frolic_. The money was
     refused. He said he would be revenged, and, having a writ some
     days after, against one of the enlisted recruits, he went to the
     rendezvous house to execute it, where the Captain took him up as
     a _deserter_, and sent him to the _Savoy Prison_, from whence he
     has been released by a _Habeas Corpus_, contrary, as military men
     say, to the law by which the military are governed. This will
     occasion a most curious contest."--(_Times, June 30, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Something like a _legal mutiny_ has, it seems, already arisen in
     the _long robed_ Corps of Volunteers. By a clause in their
     _engrossed agreement_, every Member neglecting to attend the
     regular _drill_, is _bound_ to pay a _fine of three shillings and
     four-pence_, towards purchasing _parchment_ to new head their
     drums. Against this _penalty_ being _levied_, some of the
     absentees have _demurred_, on the _plea_ that the _instrument_ is
     not _valid_ in _law_, from its not being _drawn_ on a _six
     shilling stamp_."--(_Times, July 17, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A melancholy accident happened yesterday, about one o'clock, at
     the Recruiting Office, Angel Court, Charing Cross. A sergeant
     having kidnapped a man, for the better securing him, had
     confined him in a back-garret at the top of the house, after he
     had cut off his hair, to disfigure him, and, tying his hands
     behind him, and locking the door, left him by himself. By some
     means, the man got his hands loosened, and chose rather to risk
     his life by jumping from the window, than suffer himself to be
     any longer in their clutches; accordingly, he attempted to pitch
     upon a leaded roof, which was about half way to the bottom, but,
     unfortunately, jumping short, he fell back, and his head falling
     against the wall, his skull was fractured in such a shocking
     manner, that he died in about an hour afterwards. The populace
     were so much enraged at this shocking enormity, which we are
     sorry to believe is too often repeated, that they almost
     demolished the Recruiting Office. The mob had increased to so
     great a degree at ten o'clock last night, that it was found
     necessary to call out a party of the Horse Guards, for the
     protection of the neighbourhood."--(_Times, Aug. 16, 1794._)

[Illustration: Kidnapping, or a disgrace to Old England]

This was a serious riot. The mob at that time was peculiarly
excitable, and had a great deal more of its own way than it has now.
So a spark only was wanted to make a flame. This was found in a
rumoured case of kidnapping for the army; impressing for the navy
could be understood, because it had obtained from time immemorial,
that when the king wanted men to man his war vessels, he took seamen,
or fishermen, but this was something new, and must be put down,
otherwise no man was safe. The truth was not scrupulously adhered to,
and the print shops, ever eager to make money by pandering to the
passions of the hour, published exaggerated, and heartrending
pictures, of the way in which the army was recruited, and, altogether,
a very pretty riot was got up.

     "On Saturday morning, early, a mob again collected before Angel
     Court, Charing Cross, and attacked the house from whence the
     unfortunate young man had thrown himself into the street. The
     populace proceeded to gut the house, throwing the furniture out
     of the windows. The street was covered with feathers from the
     beds which were torn to pieces: they were proceeding to demolish
     an adjoining house, when the military were called in, and several
     officer's detachments, both of horse, and foot, again paraded the
     streets at Charing Cross. The mob having assembled again
     yesterday morning, and becoming very riotous, a troop of Horse
     Guards was very properly ordered out, and two or three of the
     principal rioters about the King's Arms Public House, taken into
     custody.

     "It is some satisfaction that we have heard the Coroner's report
     on the investigation of this unpleasant business. A most
     respectable jury sat five hours, on Saturday night, to consider
     of the verdict: and, after the most minute testimony of several
     witnesses, it was proved that the young man, whose name was
     _Howe_, and lived at Wandsworth, was a Lunatic, and had been
     several times confined by his friends. He had himself offered to
     enlist; no blame whatever attaches in this instance, to the
     people of the house. We trust that this impartial enquiry will
     satisfy the minds of every one, and that there will be no more
     mobs."--(_Times, Aug. 18, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In consequence of a mob again assembling at Charing Cross,
     yesterday evening, the Horse Guards were again called out, and
     paraded the streets till midnight."--(_Times, Aug. 19, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "THE RIOTS IN LONDON.

     "We had flattered ourselves with the hope, that the very fair,
     and public, investigation which took place on the Coroner's
     Inquest, which sat on Saturday last on the body of the
     unfortunate man, Howe, who threw himself out of a window of a
     Recruiting House, would have satisfied every man's mind, that
     Howe was a Lunatic, and had been so for many years past: and that
     it was in a fit of Lunacy, that he destroyed himself. We hoped
     after this investigation, all kinds of mobs would have ceased.

     "We are sorry to observe, that the people are instigated to riot
     by the false representations daily made in those Jacobin prints,
     which are, at all times, so eager to announce, and magnify, every
     public misfortune. One of these yesterday asserted, 'that a poor
     woman with five children, and herself now pregnant, suspecting
     the crimps had decoyed her husband into a house in Whitcomb St.,
     watched it, and _by chance saw her husband chained to the
     floor_.' An evening paper of yesterday, observes 'that the
     guards, both horse and foot, were _as usual_, grossly insulting
     inoffensive passengers,' and it concludes with a piece of advice
     to these military gentlemen, 'that they are not always with
     musquets, and swords, in their hands, and that the people may be
     roused to resistance.' Now we know that no gentlemen could have
     observed greater caution than the military have done on this
     occasion: and the above remarks have no other object than to
     excite riot.

     "On Tuesday last, _John Kerr_ and _John Ruggle_, were committed
     to Newgate for stripping a man of his cloaths. Kerr is the man
     who keeps a house in Whitcomb Street, Charing Cross; which was
     assailed by a mob on Tuesday night, and very much damaged. It was
     owing to this riot, that the Horse Guards were again called out,
     and paraded the streets, through the night, as well as yesterday,
     to keep the peace.

     "Six of those who were found in Kerr's house throwing the
     furniture out of the windows, were taken into custody, and,
     yesterday morning, were all committed to Tothill-fields
     Bridewell.

     "A riot also was attempted to be raised at a recruiting-office in
     Tooley St., Southwark, on Tuesday night.

     "Yesterday, a mob assembled before a house of the same
     description, in Shoe Lane, at which several stones were thrown:
     and, at length, it became so serious, that the Lord Mayor was
     called upon to interpose his assistance, and attended, and, by
     the interference of a few constables, the mob dispersed, but, in
     the evening, the number of people continuing to increase, a party
     of guards were sent from the Tower, and the Lord Mayor, at eight
     o'clock, read the Riot Act. The mob, after being driven out of
     Shoe Lane by the soldiers, rushed suddenly to Bride Lane, where
     they broke open a house which had been employed as a
     recruiting-office, and proceeded to throw the beds, and some
     little furniture that remained in it, out of the windows; but,
     hearing of the approach of the military, they fled, saying they
     had plenty more business to do. It was reported, at the time this
     paper was going to press, that the Recruiting Offices on Mutton
     Hill, and Cow-Cross, near Clerkenwell Green, had likewise met a
     similar fate."--(_Times, Aug. 20, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Wednesday, the examinations closed respecting _Mrs. Hanna_,
     who kept the recruiting office at Charing Cross, when she was
     acquitted, no evidence being adduced to criminate her. This
     acquittal has been the consequence of a very scrutinizing
     investigation.

     "The riots were not confined, on Wednesday night, to Fleet St.
     and the neighbourhood, but extended to the Raven, in Golden Lane,
     and the Sash, in Moorfields, and very much damaged the Rum
     Puncheon, in Old St., and a private house in Long Lane. They
     were all recruiting houses. A recruiting house, opposite Fetter
     Lane, in Holborn, was completely gutted.

     "Yesterday, bills were very properly stuck up in different parts
     of the town, to the following purport:--'You are earnestly
     requested to depart hence, and not by remaining, encourage others
     to stop, by which a crowd will be accumulated, and your personal
     liberty may be endangered.' Parents were likewise warned from
     suffering their children to appear abroad.

     "It is greatly to be apprehended that there exists a scheme to
     raise mobs, and disturb the peace of the metropolis. On Friday,
     and Saturday, during the riots at Charing Cross, great pains were
     taken to persuade the people, that there were subterraneous
     passages from the houses to the Thames, and that men were sent
     off in the night. On Monday, and Tuesday, hand-bills were
     distributed, telling the people that men, and children, were
     kidnapped, and sent off to Canada, and elsewhere. Nothing can be
     more notoriously false than such assertions."--(_Times, Aug. 22,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Thursday night there was an attempt made to raise a riot in
     St. George's Fields, at the Milk House, the corner of the London
     Road, the master of which is a temporary Serjeant to recruit for
     some of the volunteer corps; but by the spirited behaviour of the
     recruits, soldiers and light horse volunteers, in that quarter,
     the incendiaries did not proceed to acts of violence. It was
     evidently apparent that the mob was led on by persons above the
     common rank, whose sole aim is, if possible, under the idea of
     some pretended grievance, to raise a general riot in the
     metropolis. On Thursday, several persons were committed to the
     New Compter, by the Lord Mayor, for being concerned in the riot
     in Shoe Lane; and six men were committed to Newgate, from the
     Public Office, in Worship Street, for being concerned in the
     riots at the Sash, in Moorfields, and at the Black Raven, in
     Golden Lane.

     "In the course of the same day, several attempts of a similar
     nature were made in different quarters of the town, which were
     prevented, however, by the appearance of the regular military,
     and, in some places, by the City Horse Volunteers, who have been
     out on duty every day. The recruiting offices in Drury Lane, and
     at Shoreditch, were attempted to be demolished. As the
     continuance of these riotous proceedings is of the most
     dangerous nature, we trust that some more decisive steps will be
     taken, by Government, for their suppression."--(_Times, Aug. 23,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The activity of the Magistrates, and the arrival of the Oxford
     Blues, to assist the Civil Power, caused the mobs to be cautious
     of appearing on Saturday. They found that it was determined to
     fire upon them if they did not desist; and, therefore, they
     thought personal safety the best policy. A very rigid, and
     severe, investigation will, no doubt, be made into the practice
     of _crimping_, and a stop put to the disgraceful manner of
     _recruiting_."--(_Times, Aug. 26, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Old Bailey.

     "Five men were indicted for a riot, on the 20th of last month, at
     a Public House, known by the name of the Old Sash, in Moorfields.
     After a trial of five hours, the Jury found all the
     prisoners--_Not Guilty_. _John Osborn_ and _R. Piggott_ were
     indicted for riotously assembling on the 20th August last, in
     Golden Lane, and beginning to demolish the dwelling house of
     _Hugh Case_. _Piggott_ found guilty, sentence, _Death_. _Osborn_,
     not Guilty. _J. Strutt_, was afterwards tried for beginning to
     demolish the dwelling house of W. Ostiff, in Johnson's Court,
     Charing Cross, and, after a trial of several hours, was found
     guilty, sentence _Death_. Antony Purchase, and R. Warnbeck, were
     next tried, for beginning to pull down the house of R. Lazell,
     and found guilty, sentence _Death_. They were both of them
     strongly recommended, by the Jury, to mercy, on account of their
     youth, and the goodness of their character."--(_Times, Sept. 22,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Sunday evening, an affray happened in Whitcomb Street, between a
     recruiting party, and the mob, on account of the former
     attempting to trepan a young man, in a state of intoxication. The
     windows of the recruiting-house were broke, and the affair, which
     for some time bore an alarming aspect, was at last terminated by
     the arrival of a party of the Horse Guards." (_Times, Dec. 23,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     RIOT IN ST. GEORGE'S FIELDS.

     "However expedient it is to recruit our Land Forces, and strongly
     as it is requisite to make our Navy respectable, and superior to
     the enemy, yet, in attaining these essential points, the
     constitutional liberty of the subject should be preserved. It is,
     therefore, with a degree of regret, we mention that the power of
     enlisting men for the Land Service, in particular, has been
     entrusted to persons who have abused the confidence reposed in
     them, and who have used the most unjustifiable means to
     accomplish their purposes. As an instance, among others that have
     previously been brought before the public, we are authorised,
     from the circumstances of the case, to state, that on Friday
     last, a very great mob assembled in _London Road_, leading from
     the Obelisk, in St. George's Fields, to the Elephant and Castle,
     at Newington Butts, and, having intimation that a number of men
     were there imprisoned by a certain description of _Crimps_, they
     attacked the house where these persons were confined, demolished
     the windows, and released eighteen men, who were chained together
     by hand-cuffs, and other iron ligaments.

     "The Borough Magistrates, on hearing of this outrage, immediately
     sent down their officers: and the _Acting Recruiting Serjeant_
     being taken into custody, he was, after a short examination,
     committed to the New Gaol. The circumstances which led to the
     discovery of this imprisonment, was, that of kidnapping a
     pot-boy, who, before he was chained down, contrived to break a
     pane of glass in the drawing-room window (for the house was a
     private one, and elegantly furnished), from whence he cried out
     'Murder!' This alarmed the neighbourhood, and, as it had been
     suspected by them, that persons were illegally confined there,
     the doors, and windows, were soon demolished, and the prisoners
     liberated. The Serjeant, and his crew, had two women of the town
     genteelly dressed up for the purpose of inveigling young men into
     the house, which they styled their lodgings, where the deluded
     were instantly hand-cuffed, and, about three or four o'clock, in
     the morning, sent off in coaches, hired for the purpose, to the
     country. On Saturday, several more youths, who were confined in
     other parts of the Fields, were released by the Magistrates,
     amidst the plaudits of a numerous multitude of
     spectators."--(_Times, Jan. 12, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Tuesday night some disturbance happened in Charles Streets,
     Westminster, occasioned by some crimps having inveigled a boy
     from his parents, and lodged him in a house there. The mob broke
     the windows of it, and the boy was rescued. We have every reason
     to hope that the most severe punishment will be inflicted on the
     crimps, Government having taken every possible pains to prevent
     such abuses."--(_Times, April 16, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday evening, about seven o'clock, a very considerable mob
     assembled about Charing Cross, and, under the pretence of
     delivering a man from the Crimping House, they attacked the
     house, which is up a little court near Northumberland House, and
     threw all the furniture out of the windows. Charing Cross was
     covered with feathers. The mob became so numerous, and
     disorderly, that it was found necessary to call in the assistance
     of the Horse Guards: and the Riot Act was twice read by a
     Magistrate. The street was much thronged, and the tumult
     continued, when this Paper went to press: although there had been
     no other act of serious mischief. No one can detest the business
     of Crimping more than we do: but we have strong reasons to
     believe that this is very frequently made a stalking horse with
     the factious, to provoke a riot."--(_Times, July 12, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A Mob collected themselves again, last night, at Charing Cross,
     when, after making every one pull off their hats, as they passed,
     they proceeded to Mr. Pitt's, in Downing St., and broke several
     windows in his house; but, the Guards being immediately called
     out, and appearing in sight, very soon dispersed them.

     "The Mob, afterwards, went over Westminster Bridge, and paraded
     to St. George's-fields, where they attacked the _Royal George_
     Public-house, near the Obelisk, and threw all the furniture of it
     into the road, and there burnt it. They gutted another
     Recruiting house, in Lambeth-Road, and, afterwards, made a
     bonfire of the furniture. This was mistaken by many, to be houses
     on fire. There were some of the Mob who kept watch on the outside
     of the houses, to give notice of the arrival of the military, who
     did not come till after the furniture of these two houses were
     consumed. The Mob compelled the inhabitants of the houses in the
     neighbourhood, to put up lights.

     "The Riot at Charing Cross, on Sunday night, was begun by a very
     few persons who wished for mischief, and called out the words,
     Crimps, and Kidnappers! The damage was done almost
     instantaneously, and the villains escaped, leaving a numerous
     assembly of people, who were only drawn together by an idle
     curiosity, on the Surrey-road, near the Circus. Yesterday
     morning, however, about seven o'clock, it was assailed by a mob,
     and, notwithstanding it was well defended, and that the door was
     plated with iron, it was forced, and the prisoners rescued. Last
     night the mob again assembled about half past eight o'clock, near
     the Obelisk, in St. George's fields, where they gutted another
     Recruiting Office, and threw the furniture into the road, of
     which they made a bonfire. At first, the mob consisted only of
     about one hundred men, but the flames soon attracted great
     numbers. About nine, the Horse Guards arrived, and soon dispersed
     the crowd. We wish they had come sooner, as it is extremely
     injudicious to the public interest, that such indecent sights
     should be repeated. It was very well known that a Mob meant to
     assemble, and, of course, the Military should have been at hand,
     to meet it. Several persons were much hurt, in not being able to
     disperse soon enough, which ought to be a warning not to mingle
     in such a crowd. The Duchess of Gloucester, who was at the
     Circus, with her daughter, was escorted home by a party of
     horse."--(_Times, July 14, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Riots continued on Monday evening in St. George's Fields,
     until the Military arrived to disperse the mob. Several persons
     were taken into custody, and lodged in the
     watch-house."--(_Times, July 15, 1795._)

[Illustration: Modern Mode of Beating up for Volunteers.]

The way in which the patronage in the Army was managed, was a crying
shame--children in their cradles had Cornetcies presented to them, and
their promotion went on several steps before they left school. We hear
of the natural consequence, in the following extract from the _Times,
4th Jan. 1794_:--

     "We are extremely sorry that our public duty should call upon us
     to make any unpleasant remarks on the officers of our Army
     abroad, but repeated letters from the Continent, received by all
     descriptions of persons, agree in saying that there is a great
     want of Subordination among our troops. We shall not enter into
     particulars on this subject, as our only object is, that this
     observation should meet the eye of the Commander-in-Chief, and
     other General Officers, and that they should take the matter into
     their serious consideration. The evil is certainly increased by
     having so many young men introduced into the Army, and placing
     them over the heads of veteran Soldiers."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The scandalous abuses which have been so often, and so justly,
     complained of, as detrimental to the public service, of children
     being taken from school, and appointed Officers, cannot be too
     soon remedied, though it will be a Herculean task to cleanse the
     Augean stable. In mentioning the following circumstance, we have
     certainly no kind of ill-will towards the party concerned; but it
     is a fact, that a child, _not fourteen years of age_, is now
     under orders for embarkation at Plymouth, who has been taken from
     school, to join his regiment at _St. Domingo_, as Captain!!! It
     is impossible for any man, who has the interest of his country at
     heart, to hear of such abuses without commenting on them with the
     utmost severity. The fault is not with Government, but is
     attached to the custom which prevails in officering the army; a
     custom which cannot be too soon corrected."--(_Times, Feb. 10,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Duke of York has ordered circular letters to be sent round
     to the Colonels of Regiments, desiring a return to be immediately
     made to his Office, of the number of Captains in each Regiment,
     under TWELVE years of age; and of Lieutenant Colonels under the
     age of EIGHTEEN!!! The very scandalous abuses that have, of late,
     crept into the mode of officering the army, are such, as to have
     demanded a very serious enquiry: for numberless are the evils
     that have resulted from it, besides that it has given so much
     disgust to veteran Officers, whose fortunes were not adequate to
     the purchase of rank. Various are the instances of boys having
     been taken from school, to take the command of Companies of
     Regiments."--(_Times, March 20, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Over a Warehouse for fashionable dresses, in Fleet St., is
     written up 'Speculum modorum,' or, the mirror of the fashions;
     and several young Gentlemen of the Guards are actually learning
     Latin, in order to understand them. Others have sent for the
     Alphabet, in gingerbread, as preliminary education."--(_Times,
     Oct. 27, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An alteration, we understand, is shortly to take place in the
     uniform of the officers of all the regiments of the line. The
     present full dress coat is to be abandoned in favour of a very
     short one, without any lace, or lappels, which the officers are
     always to wear when on duty, but discretionally at other
     times."--(_Times, Nov. 16, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A number of _baby_ officers have threatened to sell out of the
     Guards. They purchased for the privilege of wearing handsome
     regimentals, and the new uniform they say is so ugly."--(_Times,
     Nov. 20, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Some of the sucking Colonels of the Guards have expressed their
     dislike of the short skirts. They say they feel as if they were
     going to be flogged."--(_Times, Nov. 21, 1797._)

Kelsey's was a famous fruiterer's, &c., in St. James's Street, and we
are here presented with one of the boy officers, whose legs cannot
reach the ground, and who has not yet lost his childish predilection
for "Sugar Plums." As a foil to him is given Colonel Burch, of the
Royal Household Troops--who is actively engaged in demolishing Ice
Creams.

[Illustration: Heroes Recruiting at Kelsey's 1797.]

The following paragraph tells a sad tale:--

     "The late order of the Cabinet for furnishing all His Majesty's
     troops with bread, in the same manner as if in camp, namely, a
     loaf of six pounds weight for five-pence, will, we doubt not,
     have the desired effect in preventing a continuance of those
     outrages, to which the military, in many parts of the kingdom,
     have been compelled, by absolute want."--(_Times, April 27,
     1795._)

But this order was modified, as we see.

     "A new regulation has been made throughout the whole Army, that
     instead of the additional allowance of Bread-Money, each Soldier
     is to receive 8d. per day clear."--(_Times, Oct. 2, 1795._)

The fate of a prisoner of War is always hard, and, as a rule, they are
not too luxuriously treated. When first we had large quantities of
French prisoners over here, they were nearly starved, but, afterwards,
their lot was much ameliorated. Probably they were better treated than
our people who were imprisoned in France, for, if the following letter
can be believed, they certainly were neither luxuriously housed, nor
fed.

     "The following is an Extract of a letter from an Officer of the
     'Castor' Frigate, captured some time since, by the French, dated
     _Quimper_ near Brest, Feb. 27, 1795:--

     'I wrote by Lady Ann Fitzroy, which I hope you have received; we
     were in a very bad state at that time: but since she has been
     gone, we have been a great deal worse. They now serve out nothing
     but bread, and horse-beans, for three weeks, or a month,
     together: and, when they do give meat, it is but six ounces of
     salt pork per man. It would make your heart ache, to see our poor
     sailors, without money, without cloaths, worn down by sickness,
     and emaciated to the last degree, fighting over the body of a
     dead dog, which they sometimes pick up, and devour with the most
     voracious appetites: and it is a fact, that the head, and pluck,
     of a dog, sold for 30 sous, the other day. Such scenes as this,
     was I obliged to undergo: but I am now in a house allotted for
     the officers, and am rendered very comfortable by the friendship
     of our second lieutenant, Mr. Hadaway. I am the only surviving
     midshipman of four, who came here, belonging to our ship. I have
     lost all my hair by sickness: but I live in hopes of seeing Old
     England, and my friends again.'--(_Times, April 16, 1775._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Several persons escaped from prison, bear the strongest
     testimony of praise towards Lady Ann Fitzroy, late a prisoner of
     war at _Quimper_, in France, who perhaps, suffered more insults,
     and bad usage, from her jailors, than any of her rank ever
     suffered before: but, regardless of her own distresses, she made
     it her sole business to alleviate those of her fellow-prisoners:
     made shirts, and caps, for all those in need, besides purchasing
     some hundreds of jackets, and trowsers, which she distributed
     amongst her unfortunate countrymen, in want of cloathing. Her
     Ladyship, also, every day, had a great quantity of veal, and
     soup, dressed, to distribute amongst the sick. Her unparalleled
     benevolence saved the lives of hundreds."--(_Times, June 12,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "TWENTY GUINEAS BOUNTY.

     "Gray's Inn, in the county of Middlesex, 13th Dec., 1796.

     "To all able-bodied MEN, willing to serve in His Majesty's
     Army.--The Hon. Society of Gray's Inn will give Twenty Guineas,
     without any deduction whatever, to any Man who shall be approved
     by the Regulating Officer. No Volunteer who shall enter, as
     above, can be arrested for Debt, or taken out of his Majesty's
     Service, but for a criminal Matter.--Application to be made any
     Day, from the Hour of 10, till 3 o'clock, at the Steward's
     Office, Gray's Inn.

     "Persons enrolled are not liable to serve more than one Calendar
     Month after the end of the present War."--(_Times, Dec. 17,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At the Roscommon Assizes, Lord Viscount Dillon was cast in a
     verdict of £60, for illegally confining a poor mechanic, a
     fortnight underground, with a view of _forcing_ him to
     enlist."--(_Times, Sept. 20, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Saturday last, the sentence of a Regimental Court Martial was
     carried into execution, on a private soldier, belonging to the
     2nd Battalion of the Breadalbane Fencibles, now in the Castle of
     Edinburgh. He received 1000 lashes, and was drummed out of the
     Battalion, for having, while on sentry at Leith, on the night of
     the 15th of September last, loaded his piece, and fired the same
     into the house of an inhabitant, the Civil Magistrates having
     delivered him over to the Military Law."--(_Times, Oct. 7,
     1797._)

The sale of Commissions is here openly acknowledged, although it was
not allowed, _vide_ the two following advertisements in the same paper
(1798, Jan. 15):--

     "Militia.--Any young Gentleman wishing for an Ensignsy in a
     highly respectable Regiment of Militia, where he will have the
     opportunity of forming the very first connections, may, on
     certain conditions of honour, solely between the parties, be so
     respectably introduced. The Advertiser, who is of the Church, and
     of undoubted character, as will be known, means to apply this
     only to a young person of some income of his own; or whose
     friends would add an allowance to his pay, so as to place him
     upon a more equal footing with his brother Officers, and superior
     rank. On a proper behaviour, there is no doubt but that he would
     soon have a Lieutenant's Commission, and it is to be considered
     that at the end of the War, he will be entitled to half pay, the
     same as the line. It is apprehended, too, that it might still
     more peculiarly suit one who may mean to ultimately go into the
     regulars, and would prefer having his first steps in the Militia.
     The Advertiser, not residing in London, a letter at Messrs.
     Wilson and Wright's, Walker's Court, Soho, for A. P., will be
     duly honoured in the course of 2 or 3 days, provided it is signed
     with real name, and address, without which it cannot be noticed.

     "Marines.--A young man of respectable connections, and of the
     best morals, is very anxious to be in the service of his King,
     and Country, in these momentous times, and therefore ardently
     intreats the patronage of any Lady or Gentleman, who has the
     interest to procure him, or the power to bestow upon him, a
     Lieutenancy of Marines. He does not mean to offer the insult of
     any pecuniary recompence; but he will assure a greatly more
     pleasing return to a benevolent mind, that of everlasting
     gratitude, and the most unimpeachable conduct. The honor of a
     line to F. G.," &c.

     "A company in the _Guards_ has lately been sold for the enormous
     sum of 8000 guineas."--(_Times, April 26th, 1796._)

Commissions in the army were notoriously sold, but one would imagine
that a line would be drawn at Chaplains.

     Advt.--"TO BE DISPOSED OF, A CHAPLAINCY, in a new Regiment of
     Dragoons, and a Quarter-Master's Warrant, in a Regiment of
     Dragoon Guards. Apply to Mr. Hawkes, No. 17
     Piccadilly."--(_Times, June 9, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "MILITIA INSURANCE.

     Advt.--"Such persons as wish not to venture the risk of finding a
     substitute, by being drawn for the Old Militia, Supplementary
     Militia, and Tower Hamlets, may be secured on the following
     Terms, viz. Old Militia--7s. 6d. or 10s. per annum; Supplementary
     Militia £1 1s. or £1 11s. 6d.; Ditto, together, £1, 7s. 6d., or
     £2 per annum; Tower Hamlets £1, or £1 10s., per annum; by Mr.
     Cox, Junr., No. 36 Holborn."--(_Times, Feb. 7, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The trial of Capt. F. Arthur of the Yeoman Artillery, commenced
     on Saturday, at Limerick, and terminated, on Monday, the 25th,
     when he was sentenced by the Court-Martial, _to be transported
     for life, and to pay a fine to the King of £5000_."--(_Times,
     July 2, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Some accounts of our present Volunteer Associations will, no
     doubt, when read a few years hence, excite no small degree of
     surprise. Of this class are the following paragraphs. 'The
     Reverend Doctor F---- gave the word of command.'--'Counsellor
     G---- led his detachment to the charge with uncommon spirit and
     vigour.'--'An Anthem was sung by Captain-Lieutenant _Sale_,'
     &c."--(_Times, Sept. 5, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lewes.--Last week the Volunteers for regular Service from the
     Derby, Westminster, North Gloucester, and Surrey regiments of
     Militia, marched into this town, from their respective stations,
     on their routes to the grand depot, at Horsham. The large
     bounties which these men have received, enable them to keep up a
     scene of drunkenness, and insubordination, which it is very
     difficult to restrain. After parade here, on Saturday evening,
     Sir Joseph Mawbey, and other Officers, commanding the Surrey
     Volunteers, were compelled to have recourse to their drawn
     swords, to enforce order, and maintain their command, which was
     for some time powerfully resisted, on their ordering a man to the
     guard-house. And, on dismissing the parade, yesterday evening, a
     similar disturbance took place. No swords were then drawn, but
     the clamour demanded the interference of General Hulse, who, in
     consequence, ordered out a piquet guard of infantry, and a
     patrole of horse, by which tranquillity was restored, and
     preserved. Others who have passed through this town, in their
     drunken frolics, distinguished themselves by swallowing
     Bank-notes between slices of bread and butter, and lighting their
     pipes with them, to the no small advantage of the
     Bankers."--(_Times, July 31, 1799._)




SOCIAL ECONOMY.


Under this head are placed many matters which could scarcely be
classified.

Take, for instance, the series of groups copied from a long picture of
the "Installation Supper, as given at the Pantheon, by the Knights of
the Bath, on the 26th of May 1788."

In looking at this series, we must never lose sight of the fact, that,
here, we are getting a peep at _haut ton_--none of your common
folk--and, if the picture be a true one, they must have been contented
with the roughest accommodation. Hard seats, plain tables, with no
Plate, nor floral decorations, no napkins; Knives and forks brandished
in a most reckless, and uncouth manner; an utter disregard for the
proprieties of the table, even to drinking the gravy out of a plate;
and intoxication, in its various phases, passing, seemingly,
unchallenged. A tankard of beer admitted to such a banquet, and two
people sharing the same "dish of tea," are all, to us, astounding
revelations of the social manners of our grandfathers.

[Illustration: Installation Supper.]

[Illustration:

  Sir F Johnston & Lady.
  Lord Bathurst.
  Major Topham.]

From the following we get a curious glimpse of the Social economy, of
the times--a phase of thinking which would scarcely do nowadays:--

     "In a complicated machine, any of the inferior parts getting out
     of order, will soon obstruct the whole: and, conceiving such may
     be the case with public society, we are led to make a few
     observations on some improprieties which occur in the present
     day.

     "The wages given to servants have increased during the last 10
     years, more than for 30, or perhaps 40, years before: and the
     misfortune is, that dissipation, and want of morals, have also
     much increased, particularly among manufacturing labourers, who
     now have got, in many places, only to work three, or four, days
     in the week, and to be drunk the remaining time, leaving their
     wives, and children, neglected, and in rags.

     "As to household servants, the accommodation offices for hiring
     of them, have had the worst effect. They make them indifferent
     about keeping their places; lure them on with false hopes, and
     often before a servant gets fixed, they, and the pawnbroker, put
     them under difficulties.

     "Travelling expences, by the profusion in the perquisites given
     to waiters, post boys, &c., have become enormous, and their
     attention is less; but, if those who give in that way, were to
     consider the injury they do the public, and of how little use it
     is to those who receive it, they would certainly think such money
     so squandered away, would have been better bestowed, if applied
     to some public charity, or left for the poor of the parish.

     "Increase of trade, and wealth, having produced an increase of
     luxury, and made the necessaries of life more expensive, it is
     proper that wages should be increased: but yet not beyond the
     bounds of proportion; for it will be found in those manufacturing
     occupations, in which labourers get the most money, they are the
     most disorderly, continually combining together to leave their
     work, unless their masters consent to increase their wages, and
     which only proves a temporary compromise, till they have an
     opportunity of making a further demand. On the contrary, where
     less wages are given, we shall find the people more happy, and
     contented, their wives more attended to, and their children
     brought up with more religion, and better morals."--(_Times,
     Sept. 5, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "To the CONDUCTOR of the TIMES.

     "Sir,--Various are the receipts for cheap puddings, and many
     long, and useful, letters have appeared in your very excellent
     paper, towards alleviating (as much as is in the power of every
     Housekeeper) the scarcity, and dearness, of bread: by
     substituting rice, and potatoes, in the room of pies, or flour
     puddings: but there still exists an evil which I have not seen
     spoken against, and which certainly occasions a very great
     consumption of starch: I mean the general fashion which has
     prevailed for some years, and does still, from the highest, to
     the lowest, of wearing white dresses, which, upon a moderate
     computation, for every individual, must consume at least double
     the soap, and starch, than when coloured callicoes, silks, and
     stuffs, were in fashion: Added to this, that every maid servant
     (who, though she is perhaps not worth a second pair of shoes)
     will wear her muslin handkerchiefs. I think it is the duty of
     every good master, and mistress, to stop, as much as possible,
     the present ridiculous, and extravagant, mode of dress in their
     domestics. View, on a Sunday, a tradesman's family coming from
     church, and you would be puzzled to distinguish the porter from
     his master, or the maid from her mistress. Formerly a plaited
     cap, and a white handkerchief, served a young woman three, or
     four, Sundays. Now a mistress is required to give up, by
     agreement, the latter end of the week for her maids to prepare
     their caps, tuckers, gowns, &c., for Sunday, and, I am told,
     there are houses open on purpose, where those servants who do not
     choose their mistresses shall see them, carry their dresses in a
     bundle, and put them on, meet again in the evening, for the
     purpose of disrobing: and where, I doubt, many a poor, deluded,
     creature, has been disrobed of her virtue. They certainly call
     aloud for some restraint, both as to their dress, as well as
     insolent manner. Tell a servant, now, in the mildest manner, they
     have not done their work to please you, you are told to provide
     for yourself, and, should you offer to speak again, they are
     gone. Surely no set of people are more capable of rendering our
     families comfortable, or the reverse, than domestic servants, nor
     any set of people who feel the present dearness of provisions so
     little. I look upon their exorbitant increase of wages, as
     chiefly conducive to their impertinence: for, when they had five,
     or six, pounds a year, a month being out of place, was severely
     felt; but now their wages are doubled, they have, in a great
     measure, lost their dependence: And what is this increase of
     wages for? not in order to lay by a little, in case of sickness,
     but to squander in dress. No young woman, now, can bear a strong
     pair of leather shoes, but they must wear Spanish leather, and so
     on in every article of dress. No wonder, then, that there should
     be so many prostitutes, and so few good wives.

     "By inserting these hints, as soon as you conveniently can, you
     will much oblige,

                                       _A Constant Reader_."

     --(_Times, Dec. 25, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We trust that the measure, which was, last year, so laudably
     attempted by the Brewers, Bakers, and Publicans, for the
     abolishing Christmas-Boxes, will not only be continued by them,
     but will also be followed up by the other trades, who have
     hitherto been compelled, by custom, to continue a practice so
     destructive to the lower orders of people."--(_Times, Dec. 17,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"CHRISTMAS BOXES.--The BUTCHERS, resident within the
     Parish of HACKNEY, beg leave respectfully to inform their
     Customers, and the Public, that, on account of the excessive high
     price of Provisions, they find it impossible to continue the
     practice of giving CHRISTMAS BOXES to the servants of their
     customers, without sustaining, on the one hand, a deduction from
     their profits, which the trade will not allow, or, on the other
     hand, increasing their charges: they have, therefore, unanimously
     resolved to discontinue the practice, in time to come, and hope
     that their conduct, on this occasion, will not be deemed
     improper, or disrespectful."--(_Times, Dec. 9, 1795._)

[Illustration: Sir George Young and Lady.]

[Illustration: Lord Amherst]

The following Advertisements, which are only a few out of many, shew
how common was the sale of Government appointments:--

     "Place under Government. £2000 or £3000 or more will be presented
     to any Gentleman, who has interest to procure for the Advertiser,
     a Place in any of the Public Offices, of respectability, and an
     adequate income. No Agent, or Broker, will be attended to.
     Letters to be addressed &c., &c."--(_Times, March 13, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Place under Government. To be DISPOSED of, a Genteel Place under
     Government: present Salary £100 a year, with the chance of
     rising, and other advantages: the next rise will be a
     considerable one.--Any Young Gentleman, who can command from 500£
     to 1000£ will be treated with: and by addressing a line to A.
     Batson's Coffee-house, with real name and place of abode, will be
     informed of further particulars. N.B. No Brokers will be attended
     to."--(_Times, April 15, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A PLACE under GOVERNMENT.

     "To be sold, a permanent Place, which can always be disposed of
     at pleasure, the salary £76 per annum, net, payable quarterly,
     the attendance not more than 20 times in the year, and about 2 or
     3 hours each time: the duty is agreeable, and in the line of a
     Gentleman, and can at all times at a small expence be executed by
     a Deputy. Address &c., &c."--(_Times, Feb. 3, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"Three hundred Pounds. An adequate Premium of £300 or
     upwards, will be given to any Lady, or Gentleman, who has
     interest to procure the Advertiser a Place in one of the
     Government Offices. As the parties are of the utmost
     respectability, the greatest honour and secrecy may be depended
     on. Address to &c., &c."

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"Fifty Guineas will be given to any Gentleman, or Lady,
     who has interest to procure the Advertiser, a young Man, 25 years
     of age, a Situation in any of the Public Offices under
     Government. Address &c., &c."

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"A Douceur. Wanted, Information as to Situations in
     Public Offices, or other Appointments under Government, at home,
     or abroad, which are at present vacant, or like soon to be, or
     where those who hold such may be willing to resign, on account of
     their advanced time of life, or other circumstances, on a Douceur
     being made them. Any person who can give information of this kind
     will be waited on at any time, or place, he may appoint. At
     meeting, all particular terms, and circumstances, can be
     explained. The Advertiser is a person who can give the most
     satisfactory testimonials of connections, and abilities, and he
     wishes to be understood that the object of this Advertisement
     respects Appointments where the emoluments derived from the
     Situations may be from £500, down to £200 per ann. The most
     perfect secrecy may be relied on--"

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"Five Hundred Pounds will be given to any Lady or
     Gentleman, who can procure the Advertiser a Place under
     Government, where the emoluments will be a liberal compensation
     for the sum proposed, and but little attendance required: or, if
     constant attendance is necessary, it will be expected that the
     emoluments should be in proportion. The person who wishes such a
     situation, is respectable in his connections, and the most
     inviolable secrecy will be observed. No broker will be attended
     to. Either in a Civil department, or otherwise. For reference &c.
     &c. &c."--(_Times, Jany. 4, 1799._)

[Illustration:

  Lord Sandwich.      Dr. Brilland.      Dr. Pair.]

The _Penny Post_ was an institution of those days, although its action
was limited as to distance. The following excerpts will enable us to
notice its different phases, during the years treated of:--

     "The Postmaster General has lately established a Penny Post at
     Manchester, which promises great convenience to the inhabitants
     of that place, and its vicinity."--(_Times, April 17, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The new Penny Post Office is likely to prove such a very great
     accommodation to the public, that the only wonder is--it has been
     so long neglected. Instead of the number of deliveries, and the
     hours of despatch, varying in different parts of the town, as at
     present, there will be six deliveries, each day, in all parts of
     the town: by which means, a person living at Mary-le-bonne, may
     send letters to, or receive letters from, Limehouse, a distance
     of seven miles, five times a day. Persons putting in letters by
     nine in the morning at the distance of ten miles from the chief
     Penny Post Office, and later, at less distant parts, may receive
     answers from London the same afternoon. There will be three
     deliveries of letters, in most parts of the country, within the
     limits of the Penny Post; and there will be two posts, daily,
     from all parts within the distance of ten miles from Lombard
     St."--(_Times, Feb. 28, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The proposed plan of a new Penny Post is no longer talked
     of:--It is every day more, and more, wanted, as the present mode
     is extremely irregular, and insufficient. According to the new
     plan, the Penny Post was to have gone out seven times a
     day."--(_Times, May 4, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The PENNY POST.

     "The late regulations in the Penny Post Office are certainly of
     the most essential service to the public: but the conduct of the
     Letter Carriers requires the most minute attention. They wall
     defraud where they think they can do it with impunity; and as an
     instance of this, we give the following fact. From any part of
     the Metropolis, to the Borough of Southwark, and its adjacent
     parts, is stated to be but _One penny_ per Letter. The Carriers,
     however, uniformly charged 2d. per Letter. A Complaint of this
     imposition was made to the Comptroller, by a Gentleman, whose
     house is in the Blackfriars Road, and an immediate answer was
     given 'that the Carrier had been severely reprimanded,' and the
     surcharge had been returned. His removal from that walk, gave his
     successor, who, perhaps, did not hear of this reprimand, an
     opportunity to continue the same imposition, and the letters to
     Blackfriars Road, and in other parts of St. George's Fields, were
     again charged 2d. The Comptroller was again applied to, and on
     the next evening, he wrote a letter to the person who sends this
     for publication, 'that the Carrier was ordered to return the
     surcharge.' The publication of this circumstance is requisite, as
     no doubt, similar extortions are practised in other parts of the
     suburbs. This is a matter that ought to be universally made
     known, as cent. per cent., even on a _penny_, is rather too much
     for a man, illegally, to pay."--(_Times, Oct. 27, 1794._)

"Franking," as the privilege of free postage was called, had already
assumed dimensions, so as to have become a scandal, which is well
exposed in the following notices:--

     "Motion respecting Clerks in Office.

     "Mr. _Dent_ said ... Public notoriety went to accuse the offices
     of great abuse of the privilege of franking ... that such abuses
     did exist, and to give the proofs of them was the object which he
     proposed to gain by his present motion. He would state to the
     House some of the abuses. Certain bags came to the Post Office,
     marked Ordnance, Navy, Treasury Bags, &c., and the letters
     contained in these bags were furthered without more enquiry.
     These bags, perhaps, contained a great quantity of letters from
     the various Clerks: he could produce an instance of a very
     inferior Clerk, who had franked to a great amount, by placing his
     initials on the superscription. He had looked attentively over
     the list of those who had the privilege, and he did not find his
     name among them.... Among other instances, he would mention a Mr.
     Lackington, a celebrated bookseller; he had friends in some one
     of the Offices, and the whole of his Catalogues were franked to
     different parts of the country. It was also notorious, that some
     persons had written to their country correspondents, that if they
     would deal with them, the whole mass of pamphlets published in
     London should be sent them free of postage: this was done by
     means of the Clerks in office. In short, there were persons whose
     salaries amounted to only £300, or £400 per annum, who from their
     situation, made £1000 or £1200. It surely could not be the
     intention of the House to permit such malversation, and,
     therefore, he should move for a Committee to enquire into these
     facts. Before the late regulation, venison has passed as nimbly,
     by the post, as it run when alive in its native park. After
     further conversation, the House divided.--For the Question, 53;
     Against it, 41.--Majority, 12."

     "It would have been extraordinary indeed, if Sir Benjamin Hammett
     had not opposed the Franking Bill: for we are informed from very
     good authority, that Letters franked by, and addressed to, him
     only, are to the amount of £2400 sterling _per annum_."--(_Times,
     March 11, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Debate on Franking.

     "Mr. _Hobart_ brought up the Report of the Committee upon the
     Bill to restrain the abuse of Franking.

     "Mr. _Dent_ said, he was sorry to add, that this privilege had
     been notoriously abused, and was so publicly known, that
     paragraphs had appeared in a newspaper, of a Member having
     received £300 annually, from a mercantile house, to give them the
     advantage of this privilege. He hoped this fact was false, but he
     feared, however, it would be found too well warranted. By this
     Bill, Members were to receive only fifteen letters, and send ten,
     therefore the abuse, to this extent, could not be continued. At
     the same time, he thought, and should, bye-and-bye, more
     particularly state, in the motion he should submit to the House,
     that, when they were curtailing their own privileges, the Clerks
     in office should not be permitted to continue their abuses.

     "Mr. _Courtenay_ said, by the official returns it appeared that
     £30,000 was franked by the various offices, which amounted to one
     third of the whole of what was franked by Members of Parliament.
     Now the privilege was restrained in Members of Parliament, it
     would become more valuable to the Clerks in Office, and he should
     not wonder, if some of them should become not sleeping, but
     _writing_, partners in mercantile houses....

     "Mr. _Dent_ observed, abuses in the offices did exist to a very
     great degree. The Commissioners of the Customs received large
     Packets which contained letters to all their acquaintances in
     Town: the abuse did not end here: 20 Custom-House Porters were
     immediately dispatched to 20 different parts of the town.

     "Mr. _W. Smith_ said, ... Public notoriety was sufficient grounds
     to proceed against the Offices. Though all those letters were
     superscribed for His Majesty's service, yet they went upon many
     other purposes. A friend of his had informed him of some Vine
     cuttings, which had been sent to Ireland, franked: he also knew
     of a silk gown franked into the country: this was hardly for His
     Majesty's service.

     "Mr. _Rose_ said, if those abuses, mentioned by the Hon.
     Gentleman, had been privately intimated, they would have had
     immediate attention and some remedy applied. The laws to prevent
     the abuse of franking had been transmitted to the several
     Offices, and by them the first offence was a penalty, and the
     second, a dismissal from Office.

     "The Bill was ordered to be read a third time on
     Friday."--(_Times, April 14, 1795._)

The following are to be the new rates of Postage in this country:--

     "For every single Letter by post, for any distance not exceeding
     15 miles, be charged 3d. Double letters 6d. Triple 9d. Those of 1
     ounce weight, 1s., and so, in proportion.

     "Above 15 miles, and not exceeding 30, for single Letters 4d.,
     and so, in the same proportion.

     "Above 30 miles, and not exceeding 60, 5d., and so, in
     proportion.

     "Above 60 miles and not exceeding 100, 6d., and so, in
     proportion.

     "Above 100 miles, and not exceeding 150, 7d., and so, in
     proportion.

     "All above 150 miles, 8d., &c.

     "Upon every single Letter to Scotland, 1d., the rates of Postage
     remaining the same, on double letters, 2d., &c.

     "That the present rates of Postage between London, and Portugal,
     and between London, and British America, do cease.

     "From any part of Great Britain, to Portugal, exclusive of Inland
     Postage, every single letter, 1s., &c.

     "The same from any part of Great Britain, to British America.

     "The Inland Postage upon said Letters according to
     distance."--(_Times, Dec. 12, 1796._)

The following paragraph is interesting, as it fixes the date of the
Postal Uniforms--the colours of which are still adhered to by the
Postal authorities, in clothing the Mail drivers:--

     "The Post Office Letter Carriers in London are to be provided
     with an uniform of red coats, faced with blue, and to wear
     numbers."--(_Times, Feb. 10, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There is at this time a third of the Mail Guards ill, either
     from the intenseness of the severe weather or from colds they
     have caught in the floods: their exertions were in general very
     great, and meritorious, in saving the Mails."--(_Times, Feb. 19,
     1795._)

We are here presented with the infancy of Telegraphing--which was then
a marvel of the age--but which we, from our standpoint of Electricity,
must fain smile at. They were mechanical contrivances placed on hills,
or other eminences.

     "The Telegraph.--This mode of communication is little understood
     here, although the invention be not a new one. The process is
     getting possession of _heights_ at convenient distances, and by
     fire-works, in different forms, for different letters, _spelling_
     the order, or intelligence, from station, to station!"--(_Times,
     Sept. 11, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The new mode of correspondence, by the help of which, the
     surrender of _Quesnoy_ was known at Paris an hour after the entry
     of the French troops into that place, is a communication by
     signals, which are repeated from distance, to distance, by
     machines, stationed four, or five, leagues asunder. This may
     explain the celerity with which communications are made.

     "The _telegraph_, now brought into use by the French, appears to
     have been an invention of Dr. Hooper's, and published in his
     Rational Recreations, in 1774. The plan of which may be seen in
     his 'Visual Correspondence.'"--(_Times, Sept. 15, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The invention of the Telegraphe, does not belong alone to the
     French. About ten years ago, Count Possini at Rome, invented a
     mode of getting intelligence from Naples, in the course of an
     hour. The Lottery at Rome, depends upon that drawn at Naples. It
     differs from our Lottery, materially, for there are but six
     prizes, and these are the first six numbers drawn, and the
     remainder are all blanks. The Count, whose house is on an
     eminence near Rome, managed with his confederates, who were
     placed at certain distances, between Naples, and his estate, to
     have sky rockets let off, by which they had previously fixed with
     each other, to ascertain by such signals, any particular number,
     or numbers, drawn. The plan succeeded, as Tickets continued to be
     sold in Rome, for several hours after the drawing commenced at
     Naples, the account of which was always brought by the ordinary
     courier. By this scheme the party got about 100,000 crowns, and
     the plot would never have been discovered, had not the Count
     purchased the whole of the six prizes, which caused suspicion,
     and of course, excited enquiry."--(_Times, Sept. 16, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Astley, who is always employed in the production of something
     new, brings out, this evening, an exhibition of the much talked
     of, and ingenious Machine, called the Telegraphe, at the
     _Lyceum_, in the Strand."--(_Times, Sept. 19, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The invention of the Telegraphe, is now traced back to 1655, and
     particularly mentioned in a little book, then written, and
     published, by the Marquis of Worcester, inventor of the Steam
     Engine. He there gives it the name of _Visual Correspondence_,
     and calls it his own invention."--(_Times, Sept. 20, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Experiments are now making at Woolwich with a new species of the
     Telegraphe, to ascertain at what distance intelligence can be
     conveyed by it during the night. It is composed of letters, or
     figures, nine feet high, cut out in a board, which is painted
     black in front, and strongly illuminated behind by patent lamps
     with reflectors; it is placed on the top of the butt against
     which the cannon are proved, and proper persons are stationed at
     Purfleet, and other intermediate places, with telescopes, to
     determine at what distance letters of that size are legible at
     night, by which means any word may be written, by a succession of
     letters, and intelligence may be conveyed, with astonishing
     celerity, during the night, by having a series of different
     signal-houses at proper distances between whatever places
     information is intended to be communicated."--(_Times, Oct. 7,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It has been said, that a conversation had actually taken place
     across the Channel, between Donaghadee and Port Patrick, by means
     of a Telegraph. The following are the particulars: Two Gentlemen
     of the county of Longford have been, for sometime past, making
     experiments, in different positions, in that county, and they
     succeeded so well, as to induce them to undertake the journey to
     Donaghadee, where the Channel between Britain and Ireland is the
     narrowest, being about 18 Irish miles across. They brought down
     their machinery with them, and, having erected one on each side,
     they conversed with each other, on Monday evening last, the
     weather being tolerably clear. The conversation that passed was
     as follows--The Gentleman on this side said 'I see you, being
     white, distinctly.' The other replied 'I see you; I wish your's
     was white also.' (The machine on this side being black.) The
     Gentleman on this side then asked 'What o'clock is it?' and was
     answered 'Six.' He then said 'I will shew lights at nine o'clock,
     do you attend.' He was answered 'I will attend, but I have only
     one light.' They then made signals of 'good night,' and the
     communication ended. The machine consists of a triangle, with two
     long sides and a short one, suspended in the air vertically; it
     turns on a pivot, and is capable of being put into eight
     different positions, very distinct from each other. These
     positions represent eight of the common numerical figures, and
     these figures, according to their position, denote certain words
     and sentences, according to a preconcerted dictionary, or
     vocabulary, alphabetically, as well as numerically, arranged. It
     is believed this machine is on a principle totally different from
     the French."--(_Times, Sept, 11, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A chain of Telegraphs is erected from Shuter's Hill to Dover.
     _Gad's Hill_, and _Barham Hill_, are the intermediate
     posts."--(_Times, Dec. 30, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Telegraphe.--An improvement on this post-haste mode of
     travelling, has been offered to the Administration, by two
     foreigners, who demand £40,000 for the discovery, if it should be
     found to answer; if it does not, like quacks of another
     description, they retire with nothing but the shame of the
     attempt. These foreigners undertake to convey intelligence to all
     parts of the world, by letter as quick as thought. Certain globes
     are to be constructed, that, by the power of electricity and
     attraction, a packet, large as a horse can carry, shall be sent
     to and from Dublin, in about the time requisite for dispatching a
     breakfast!! _Credat Judeus!_"--(_Times, Jan. 12, 1796._)

In or about 1796, was instituted the semaphore telegraph--which,
until the introduction of the Electric Telegraph, was the best system
out.

     "The most important services which can be rendered to the public
     by the Telegraph, is in cases similar to that which occurred last
     week, in forwarding the news from Deal to London, of the sailing
     of the Dutch Fleet, within the space of five minutes. This prompt
     conveyance of the intelligence enabled the Admiralty Board to
     take such speedy measures for sending a fleet out after the
     enemy. When the Telegraph is established between London and other
     ports as well as Deal, the advantage will be very great
     indeed."--(_Times, Mar. 2, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The English are remarkable for improving upon the inventions of
     their Gallic neighbours. It is well known, that while these
     aerial wanderers were tumbling down like so many Phaetons from
     Heaven, we were driving about securely in balloon-coaches, and
     eating balloon-cakes, and balloon-oysters. The same advantage has
     resulted from the telegraph, which, beside christening a coach,
     and a newspaper, is now transferred to the heads of our ladies,
     and has given us telegraphic hats and telegraphic caps. By this
     invention a female will travel to Edinburgh, through the
     observatory at York, Doncaster, Grantham and Huntingdon, from the
     principal machine in Bond Street, in the time of three Operas, or
     twenty-four Routs."--(_Times, Oct. 15, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Since the invention of the _Coiffure télégraphique_ it is
     scarcely possible to follow the rapidity of the fashions. The
     morning dress and the evening dress mean literally the dress of
     the day they are worn in. It was observed, with concern, at Drury
     Lane the other evening, that the Lady P's were more than _half an
     hour_ out of fashion."--(_Times, Oct. 21, 1796._)

Among the various tyrannies of fashion, none, perhaps was more curious
than that of powdering the hair. Taxation, and the French _mode_ of
"Cropping" killed it, but it died hard.--The Tax was treated both
jocularly, and _au grand serieux_.

     EPIGRAM.

     "On the Hair Powder Licence Tax, at a time when general
     Expectation looked for a tax on Dogs:--

       "Full many a chance, or dire mishap,
        Oft'times between the lip, and cup, is;
        The Tax, that should have _hung_ our Dogs,
        Excuses them, and falls on Puppies."

     --(_Times, Mar. 11, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A tax on Dogs would certainly have been unobjectionable, as well
     as expedient, in a two-fold degree; first in creating a revenue,
     and secondly, in lessening the number of them. At the present
     period particularly, a tax on Dogs would have a good effect, as
     it is a well known fact, that the coarser parts of meat are
     scarcely to be had by the poor, because the rich can afford to
     buy them for their dogs."--(_Times, Apr. 11, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Tax on Powdered Heads is calculated to produce £450,000 per
     annum, though the Minister has only calculated it at £200,000.
     Some Gentlemen are said to have made an offer to farm it at
     £400,000."--(_Times, Mar. 25, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Hair Powder Tax."

     "An Annual Certificate to be taken out by every person wearing
     hair-powder, price one-guinea: every sort, or composition, of
     powder worn as an article of dress, to be deemed within the
     meaning of the Act. The Royal Family, and their immediate
     Servants; Clergymen, whose annual income is under £100;
     Subaltern, Non-Commissioned Officers, and Privates of the Army,
     Militia, Marines, and Fencible Corps; Officers of the Navy, under
     the rank of Commander; Officers, and Privates, in Corps of
     Yeomanry, or Volunteers; Dissenting Preachers in holy orders, or
     pretended holy orders, whose annual income is under £100, are
     exempted. Persons having more than two daughters unmarried, to
     pay only for two.

     "Persons wearing Powder without a Certificate, to forfeit £20.
     Persons selling, transferring, or using, a Certificate, with
     intent to defraud the revenue, to forfeit £30."--(_Times, May 7,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Powder Tax has already produced three hundred thousand
     pounds to Government. The term is to be extended by Act of
     Parliament, and, according to the most probable conjectures, the
     final amount will be double that sum.

     "The Duke of Devonshire has paid five and thirty guineas for his
     family. The Duchess of Northumberland, a single guinea for
     herself: powder is under interdiction among the rest of that
     family: though not from motives of disaffection. Her Grace
     assigns a more justifiable motive; namely, a scruple of
     contributing, in any unnecessary way, to the present
     scarcity."--(_Times, June 12, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_Hair Powder Tax._ The Caricaturists, who generally paint so
     plain, that those who run may read, have whimsically described
     the two orders of beings, who do, and do not, pay. The first are
     aptly enough termed _Guinea_ Pigs--the latter, Pigs without a
     _Guinea_!"--(_Times, July 1, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Commander in Chief of Brighton Camp has notified to the
     Officers, that the use of Flour, for the privates, will be
     dispensed with, during the present scarcity of Wheat."--(_Times,
     July 15, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "HAIR POWDER. To all those whom it may concern.

     "Among the many ingenious, and humane, projects that have been
     devised for lessening the consumption of Flour, and soothing the
     minds of the poor, at this interesting period, it is a matter of
     no small astonishment to me, that that of sacrificing our
     hair-powder, has not been more universally adopted. To the
     antiquated virgin, indeed, who still sighs, and hopes, and whose
     silvery locks might prove too sure an index of that worldly
     experience, which, for certain prudential reasons, she might wish
     to conceal, I confess the sacrifice is too great to be expected.
     To the unhappy _hen-peck'd bald-pate_, whose lively wife
     nauseates, and detests, the careless _brown-bob_, something may
     be said in his behalf, also: but, to every other character,
     whether the grave judge, or respectable grandmother, the buxom
     widow, or the broad shouldered Irish fortune-hunter, the flirting
     coquette, or her coxcomb colleague, the hardy veteran, or flashy
     militia captain, the pert lawyer, or the young priggish parson:
     and lastly, the smart apprentice, who _beflours_ his head to cut
     a dash at the Dog and Duck, or Bagnigge Wells: all these, I say,
     and every other character that I have omitted to name, can surely
     have no possible excuse for thus insulting the feelings of the
     poor. I repeat the word _insulting_, for it is the just and
     proper epithet; for what can we term it but insult, to be thus
     playing with the feelings of these poor wretches, at a moment
     when they are suffering the greatest of all worldly
     miseries--_want_."--(_Times, Aug. 10, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A morning Paper of yesterday, mentions by name, that a Nobleman
     of the highest rank, in this country, was, last week, summoned to
     the Police-Office, Queen's Square, for wearing powder without
     being licensed. The defence set up that his Grace, being a
     _Menial Servant_, in the King's Household, was exempt from the
     Tax: which, being admitted, the matter was dismissed.--We trust
     that this information is not authentic, for it would be a most
     pitiful subterfuge to evade the payment of a tax, which is
     generally allowed to be a proper one." (_Times, Feb. 1,
     1797._)--(_Query, the Duke of Portland._)

All articles of luxury, and very many of absolute necessity, were
taxed to supply the drain of the war--and, doubtless, people had to be
economical--but the following advertisement reduces economy to a
science:--

     "ADVANTAGEOUS HAT SUBSCRIPTION. Stamps included.

     "Three Hats, value £1, 1s. each, at £1, 14s. 6d. per Ann.,
     delivered as follows. Two on Subscription, the third at the end
     of eight months, when the two first must be returned, and the
     third at the end of the year. Four Hats, value £1, 4s. each, at
     £2, 6s. per Ann., delivered as follows. Two on subscribing, and
     two at the end of six months, when the two first must be
     returned, and the other two at the end of the year. The Hats
     changed as the Fashions vary during subscribing. To remove all
     prejudices, Gentlemen may call at the Manufactory and see the
     quality. Old Hats taken in part of the subscription money. Durant
     and Pitra, Hat Manufactory, middle of Monmouth St."--(_Times,
     Aug. 25, 1796._)

On Nov. 22, 1798, Pitt brought forward his annual statement, relating
to public finance--and proposed to raise £7,000,000, by a new tax
called a triple assessment--but, eventually, it turned out that it,
with the land tax, brought in but about 4-1/2 Millions. A Briton can
extract some fun, even out of his misfortunes, so they caricatured
this heavy tax. In Dec. 1797 appeared a picture entitled "More
visitors to John Bull; or the Assessed Taxes"--showing four little
imps coming to John Bull. He naturally asks, "What do you want, you
little devils?--ain't I plagued with enough of you already? more pick
pocket's work, I suppose?" But the _diablotins_ courteously reply,
"Please your honour, we are the Assessed Taxes."

On Dec. 3, 1798, Mr. Pitt again made his annual financial
statement--and, of course, he wanted more money--and the way by which
he proposed to raise the necessary funds--was by imposing a Tax on
Income. He proposed that no income under £60 a year should be
touched--and from that sum, to £200 per annum, should be on a smaller
scale than over £200--past which sum--a full tenth of all incomes
would be demanded. The returns were to be made by the person assessed,
subject to the inspection of a surveyor, who should lay before the
commissioners any grounds he might have for suspecting the return to
be false. The commissioners had no power to call for account books, or
to examine clerks, &c. But, if the individual did not clear himself,
and they thought he had not returned sufficient, they could make such
assessment as they thought fit. After a long debate it was carried by
183 to 17, and made law on 18th Mar. 1799. By the accompanying
caricature, "A Visitor to John Bull, for the year 1799, or the
Assessed Taxes taking their leave," it was evidently the public
impression that the Income Tax would supersede the Assessed Taxes. But
it was not so, as they were still kept on.

The little demons still behave courteously towards John Bull, who
looks in undisguised horror at the size of the awful fund (the Income
Tax) now taking possession of him.

The following paragraph would seem, at first sight, rather harsh--but
it must be borne in mind that the War was a cruel drain on our fiscal
resources--and not one penny that had been granted by parliament could
be bated.

[Illustration: The Assessed Taxes taking their departure.]

     "The Commissioners of the Stamp Office having been informed that
     the practice of letting out newspapers for hire, was carried on
     to a very considerable extent, to the great injury of the
     revenue, the Commissioners ordered a prosecution to take place,
     and a newsman was yesterday summoned before the Lord Mayor, and
     convicted in the penalty of £5, as the Act directs."--(_Times,
     Oct. 23, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lending Newspapers. James Berridge, a Newsman, was, on Saturday,
     brought before Sir William Addington, and R. Ford, Esq., charged
     with letting out Newspapers for hire, from house to house. This
     was a prosecution instituted by the Commissioners of the Stamps.
     A great number of complaints were brought forward against him,
     and he was convicted in six penalties of £5 each. A variety of
     others were about to be exhibited against him, but in
     consideration of his having a large family, the Solicitor
     declined going into them."--(_Times, Jan. 2, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The keepers of several reading-rooms in Fleet Street, and
     Shoe-Lane, were, on Saturday, fined £5 for lending newspapers for
     hire."--(_Times, Sept. 26, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Government intends to have one fixed standard for Weights, and
     Measures, over the whole Kingdom; as the greatest frauds, for
     want of that regulation, have, for ages, been practised with
     impunity. These regulations are much needed, and are an excellent
     subject for taxation. The lower orders of the community are
     grievously imposed upon, for want of them, and, doubtless, it
     will be a popular mode of taxation, and can give no offence to
     any class of people, but those dishonestly employed."--(_Times,
     Sept. 15, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The following curious view of the incredible loss sustained by
     raising weekly loans of money, at the Pawnbrokers, it is hoped,
     will prove an additional incitement to frugality; for certain it
     is, that in many instances, 1/6th, and in some cases 1/5th, and
     even as high as 1/4th, of the annual earnings of the more
     thoughtless, and dissolute part, of the poor, is paid for
     temporary accommodations. For instance,

     "The person who borrows 3d. in pawn, pays 6d. a year, interest,
     but, if taken out weekly, (a thing very common, particularly
     during the Lottery),

       It is 1/2d. per week,      or 850 per cent. on the sum borrowed.
       If      6d. it is the same "  425              do.
       If      9d.        do.     "  285              do.
       If  1s.            do.     "  215              do.
       If  2s.            do.     "  107-1/2          do.
       If  2s. 6d.        do.     "   87-1/2          do.

     "This explanation should be a warning to those who are so
     improvident, as to pawn their Sunday cloaths, every Monday
     morning, or 52 times a year, a custom which too frequently
     prevails, without reflecting that the Interest paid the
     Pawnbroker would, probably, purchase two or three coats, gowns,
     or silk cloaks, in the course of the year."--(_Times, Mar. 20,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "ON PUBLIC-HOUSES. (Condensed.)

     "In the City of London, and within the Bills of Mortality, there
     are at present 5,204 licensed Public Houses, and it is calculated
     that the Beer, and Spirits, which are consumed in these
     receptacles of idleness, and profligacy, by the _labouring
     people_, only, is little short of _three millions sterling a
     year_. It has been lately discovered, that clubs of apprentice
     boys are harboured in Public Houses, for the purpose of
     supporting their brethren who run away from their masters, and of
     indulging themselves early, in scenes of lewdness, and
     drunkenness, which they generally do, by pilfering their masters
     property, and disposing of it at the old iron shops.

       "In a recent publication, the consumption of Ale, and Porter,
         annually, in the metropolis, and its environs, is stated to
         be 1,132,147 barrels, equal to 36,625,145 gallons, making
         158,400,580 pots at 3-1/2d.               £2,311,466 15 10

       "And, by another calculation, the
         average consumption of Gin, and
         Compounds, in Public Houses, previous
         to the stoppage of the distillery,
         was about 3,000,000 of Gallons               975,000  0  0
                                                   ----------------
                                                   £3,286,466 15 10

     "If a conclusion may be drawn from the apparent greater degree of
     sobriety, which is manifested, at present, by the labouring
     people, and evinced by the number of quarrels, and assaults,
     being very considerably diminished, and the pressure, with
     respect to the means of living, apparently less than in the
     spring of 1795, notwithstanding no charities have been
     distributed, and bread is considerably higher, it would seem
     reasonable to attribute this favourable change, to the high price
     of Gin, which, being in a great measure inaccessible, the lower
     ranks have it now in their power, to apply the money, formerly
     spent in this way, to the purchase of provisions, perhaps to the
     extent of some hundred thousands of Pounds a year, in the
     metropolis, alone!"--(_Times, Oct. 4. 1797._)

[Illustration: John Bull and the Income Tax.]


FOOD.

The years 1795-6 were years of great scarcity, and the graphic daily
accounts of the want of food, and of the various substitutes for
bread--the abstinence of all classes, from the King, to the labourer,
bring very vividly to our minds, a state of things, which has never
since obtained in England--

     "In consequence of the scarcity of Wheat, arising partly from
     such quantities of it being used for hair-powder, several
     regiments have, very patriotically, discontinued the use of
     hair-powder, which, in these instances, was generally nothing but
     flour."--(_Times, Feb. 10, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Parliamentary Board of Agriculture, in consideration of the
     probable scarcity of wheat, have agreed to propose a premium of
     One Thousand Pounds, to the person who will grow the largest
     breadth of _Potatoes_, on lands never applied to the culture of
     that plant before:--they have liberally excluded the Members of
     their own Board from becoming candidates for this valuable
     prize."--(_Times, Feb. 14, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The general failure of Wheat, throughout Europe, last year,
     makes it proper to promote the culture of an increased quantity
     of Potatoes, and, as one means of doing it, it is recommended to
     Noblemen and Gentlemen, who have large Parks, to break up a part
     of them to be planted with Potatoes, those grounds generally
     lying dry, will be very proper for the purpose, and fit for
     immediate planting with that root. It is hoped that so
     benevolent, and patriotic, an object, will be a sufficient
     incitement, without a consideration of profit
     attached."--(_Times, March 20, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is hinted by a benevolent mind, who has, on account of meat
     being so dear, left off soup in his family, at present, that the
     making of soup destroys a great deal of meat, and it is
     recommended that the rich leave off making soups, as the meat is
     generally wasted, it will relieve a great many poor families in
     these dear times."--(_Times, April 27, 1775._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Friday, a Court of Common-Council was held at Guildhall: when
     the Lord Mayor stated to the Court, the hardships the poor feel
     on account of the high price of provisions, on which, Mr. Syms
     moved, that a Committee of all the Aldermen, and one Commoner,
     out of each Ward, be appointed, to consider the best method to be
     adopted for reducing the price, which, after a few observations,
     was agreed to.

     "Mr. Dixon moved, that, for one year, neither the Corporation,
     nor any Committee, be allowed public dinners. It was seconded by
     Mr. Kemble, and supported by three, or four, other Members: but
     some treated the motion as not seriously meant. Mr. Deputy Birch
     moved an amendment, by adding, that the savings by such means, be
     paid to the Committee now appointed, to be by them appropriated
     for reducing the price of provisions--on which a previous
     questioned was moved, and the question being put, there appeared
     for it 26; against it 39; Majority against, 13."--(_Times, May
     11, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Provisions continue to advance in price. Mutton, in the last
     week, rose 4d. per stone of 8 lbs., which now costs the enormous
     sum of 5s. in Smithfield Market, sinking the offal; ox beef is
     4s. 4d., lamb 6s., veal 5s. 8d.

     "If a bounty was to be given on mackarel brought to market, it
     would, in a great measure, tend to lower the price of butchers
     meat, which a ruinous plan of forestalling, and unfair buying and
     selling, has raised to an alarming price.

     "A report from the committee appointed at the last Court of
     Common Council, to consider of the best means of reducing the
     present high price of provisions, was read, giving it as their
     opinion, that encouraging the bringing up fish to Billingsgate,
     would, in a great measure, reduce the price of meat, with which
     report the Court agreed, and £500 was granted for that
     purpose."--(_Times, May 18, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"GUILDHALL, London, May 22, 1795.

     "The Committee, appointed by the Court of Common Council, to use
     the best Means to increase the Quantity of Fish brought to the
     London Market, to reduce the price of Provisions, do hereby give
     notice, that they have resolved to give a Bounty of Two Pounds
     for every 1000 Mackarel, sold at Billingsgate, at the rate of
     20s. per hundred of six score, with a sufficient proof of their
     freshness: Four Pounds for every 2000: Six Pounds for every 3000:
     Eight Pounds for every 4000, and Ten Pounds for every 5000
     Mackarel, sold, as aforesaid. Also, they have resolved to give a
     Bounty of Five Pounds per Ton, or Five Shillings for every
     Hundred weight of Cod, and Haddock, sold at Billingsgate at the
     rate of 2d. per lb., with a sufficient proof of their freshness.
     The said Bounties to commence on Monday the 1st June next, and
     be paid by applying at the Chamberlain's Office, on producing a
     Certificate, of the number, goodness, and prices, of the said
     Fish.

                                                       RIX."

     --(_Times, May 25, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Among the numerous causes which may be assigned for the present
     high prices of provisions, especially of poultry, the uniting of
     many small farms into one great one, is not the least. It is a
     well known fact, that, where three farms have been leased, or
     let, to one tenant, which three farms, antecedently, had each a
     separate tenant, no more poultry is produced by the union, than
     each separately reared, when divided, so that two-thirds are, of
     course, lost to the public. This mode of throwing many small
     farms into one large farm, by having one, instead of a number of
     tenants, however it may profit the landlord, is of very great
     injury to the public, inasmuch as it gives a kind of Aristocracy
     to the farmers, that enables them, in a great measure, to set
     what price they please upon provisions, destroying that
     competition, which is always the consequence, where the venders
     are numerous. Thus it is that a great part of Oxfordshire has
     been bought up by a noble Duke, who, by monopolizing so much
     land, and destroying a number of small farms, has done a very
     essential injury to the public."--(_Times, June 22, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We are sorry to learn that Wheat rose yesterday nine shillings
     per quarter. It is, however, with great satisfaction, we
     announce, that several ships, laden with corn, are arrived in the
     Downs from Dantzic, and part of their produce is expected to
     arrive in time for to-morrow's market."--(_Times, July 7, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Privy Council, whose constant attention has been directed,
     for many months past, to provide the kingdom with a regular
     supply of corn, propose to recommend to the country at large, the
     use of Household Bread. It is further to be recommended, that
     families should not have puddings, or pies, nor any such like
     articles made of flour.

     "The Magistrates of the General Quarter Sessions for Middlesex,
     seem to be acting upon this principle in the resolution passed at
     their last Court-day, which we trust will be followed by every
     other public body in the kingdom. The disuse of pastry seems to
     be a very important consideration.

     "The Directors of the East India Co. have set a laudable example
     of attention to the distresses of the times, in abridging the
     customary expense of their dinners, on Court-days."--(_Times,
     July 10, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"At a General Quarter Session of the Peace, for the County
     of Middlesex, the Magistrates assembled, taking into
     consideration the present High Prices of Provisions, with the
     consequent inconveniences resulting therefrom, and, feeling the
     propriety of a general retrenchment in the manner of furnishing
     the Table, at this particular time, have come to the following
     Resolution, viz., That during the remainder of the present
     Session, and during the next Session, in September, no Puddings,
     or Pies, nor any the like articles made of Flour, be served to
     their table, nor any other provisions, whatsoever, than fish,
     beef, mutton, or veal, with vegetables, and household bread.

                            "By the Court.           Selby."

     --(_Times, July 9, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday, the Directors of the Bank of England sent £500 to the
     Lord Mayor, requesting he would apply that sum towards the relief
     of the industrious poor, in the article of BREAD. The _Sun Fire
     Office_ sent £100, to the same worthy Magistrate, for the like
     purpose. The different Wards in the City have subscribed, very
     liberally, towards the relief of the poor in their present
     distress. Public subscriptions are about to be opened for the
     same benevolent purpose. Pastry, and puddings, have been
     abolished in a number of private houses. The Directors of the
     Bank yesterday came to a resolution to have no more public
     dinners, while the price of provisions continued so high. This
     laudable resolution will, we trust, be followed by all the
     corporate bodies in the kingdom."--(_Times, July 11, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Drapers Company voted the 200 guineas, for reducing the
     price of Bread, after the _Court_ had been on a Survey, and, (to
     use a technical term) returned to _dine upon a view_. The
     following Epigram was put under the Master's plate:--

       "In times so hard, how happy 'twere
       If thousands, like to you,
       Could glut their craving appetites
       By _dining on--a view_.

       But from your views such works of love
       Such general good accrues,
       That happier 'twere if each day brought
       _New dinners and new views_."

     --(_Times, July 11, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"MIDDLESEX.

     "At the General Quarter Session of the Peace of our Lord the
     King, holden in and for the County of Middlesex ... a Letter from
     his Grace the Duke of Portland, one of her Majesty's Principal
     Secretaries of State, was read, inclosing a copy of the following
     engagement, entered into by several of the Lords of his Majesty's
     most Hon. Privy Council, in the following words:

     "In consideration of the present high Price of Wheat, and, in
     order to diminish the Consumption thereof, in our respective
     Families, so as to leave a larger Supply of this necessary
     Article of Food, for the People in general, until the Corn of the
     ensuing Harvest shall come into Consumption, and relieve them of
     their present difficulties: We, whose Names are hereto
     subscribed, being desirous of introducing into common use a
     wholesome Bread, at a lower price than must be paid for the sort
     of Bread now ordinarily used, do engage that we will not,
     ourselves, consume, nor suffer to be consumed, in any of our
     Families, until the First Day of October next, at any place where
     the sort of Bread undermentioned can be procured, any sort of
     Wheaten Bread finer than that which, in an Act of Parliament
     passed in the 13th year of his present Majesty's Reign, is called
     by the name of Standard Wheaten Bread: which is directed by the
     said Act to be made of the Flour of Wheat, which Flour, without
     any Mixture, or Division, shall be the whole Produce of the
     Grain, the Bran or Hull thereof only excepted, and which shall
     weigh three-fourths parts of the weight of the Wheat whereof it
     shall be made. We further engage to diminish, as much as
     possible, the use of Flour in other articles of Food consumed in
     our respective Families. And we earnestly recommend to all our
     Fellow Subjects, to adopt these Measures, and strictly adhere to
     the same.

       Loughborough.
       Mansfield.
       Chatham.
       Portland.
       Chesterfield.
       J. Eyre.
       A. Macdonald.
       Spencer.
       Hawkesbury.
       W. Pitt.
       Leicester.
       Up. Ossory.
       W. Windham.
       Bathurst.
       Grenville.
       Amherst.
       Winchelsea.
       Stafford.
       R. P. Arden.
       Dudley Ryder.
       C. Townshend.
       Kenyon.
       Sandwich.
       Mornington.
       Carlisle.

       C. F. Greville.

     "Resolved, that this Court, deeply impressed by the wisdom of
     this measure, adopt the Regulations stated in the above
     Engagement, and resolve strictly to adhere to them, earnestly
     recommending them to the serious consideration, and practice, of
     all Masters of Families, and other Inhabitants of this County,
     &c., &c.

                                                     Selby."

  --(_Times, July 14, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The want of bread is often more imaginary, than real. There are
     many excellent substitutes for this article, which would in
     themselves be preferred by many people, if it were a matter of
     choice, only, between themselves. Unfortunately, the call for
     bread will always be in proportion to the scarcity of it, from
     the natural disposition of some to make grievances, and
     complaints, and of others to provoke tumult, and riot.

     "To make good bread. Take a pottle of fine oatmeal, and lay it in
     water, to steep, all night: next morning, it will appear (if too
     much water is not put to it) like hasty pudding. This break into
     several parts of a peck and a half of barley-meal, to which add
     warm water, and yeast, and knead it into dough, as all wheat meal
     is commonly done: then mould it into loaves, and bake them. Thus,
     a barley loaf may be made hollow, white, and sweet, so as
     scarcely to be known from coarse wheaten bread. When skimmed milk
     can be had, it will make the bread better still."--(_Times, July
     15, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "COMMON COUNCIL.

     "Yesterday, a Court of Common Council was held at Guildhall, at
     which the Lord Mayor, 6 Aldermen, and about 150 Commoners, were
     present.

     "The Lord Mayor informed the Court, that he had not yet received
     any answer to the application made by desire of that Court to his
     Majesty's Ministers, requesting them to prohibit the use of Hair
     Powder, and Flour, in the Army. It was, however, generally
     understood in the Court, that Government was acting in compliance
     with the wishes of the Court.

     "The Court then proceeded to take into consideration the
     Resolutions of his Majesty's Hon. Privy Council, recommending the
     use of standard wheaten Bread (see the Advertisement in the
     _Times_ of Tuesday last 14th inst.). The Court resolved to adopt,
     and to exert themselves to give force to, the Resolution of the
     Privy Council, and earnestly recommend the same to their fellow
     citizens. A Deputation was appointed to wait on the Privy
     Council, relative to some regulations not clearly understood,
     respecting the Millers forwarding the sort of Flour necessary for
     the purpose to market. It was also the opinion of the Court, that
     the said Deputation should recommend to the Privy Council, to
     take into consideration the propriety of an indemnity to the
     Bakers, in fixing a price to the said Household Bread.

     "Mr. Kemble then made his promised motion for the Court to
     resolve 'That no dinners be allowed, at the expence of the City,
     to the different Committees for managing the concerns of the
     Corporation, for the period of one year.' It was seconded by Mr.
     Herring, when a debate took place, which lasted more than two
     hours. The debate was at length terminated by Mr. Box proposing
     to adopt the words 'till the 1st of October next,' the time fixed
     on, in the Regulations of the Privy Council, as at that period it
     was to be hoped the present scarcity would be removed. And, if it
     was not, the Court could extend the prohibition. The motion, so
     amended, was then put, and carried, by a Majority of SEVENTEEN
     only!!"--(_Times, July 16, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We offer the following hints for the government of individuals
     in affluent circumstances, with a view of reducing the high price
     of provisions:--

     "To have fish at table as often as possible.

     "To sit down with a determined resolution to eat only of one kind
     of butcher's meat; and, where circumstances will admit, to have
     only one dish of meat at table.

     "To forbid the use of pastry in your own house, and to decline
     the use of it at any other table.

     "To be particularly economical in the use of bread, and to cut,
     yourself, what you use at your own table; making your servants
     sensible that you give such directions from a regard to the
     comforts of the poor, and not from any penurious views. It
     appears, indeed, to be of the utmost consequence to make servants
     in great, and even small families, sensible how much they may,
     under present circumstances, contribute to the relief, and
     comfort, of the poor, which every British heart must wish to do.

     "Bakers ought to be prevented from selling bread of the same
     day's baking, as, on a fair calculation, four stale loaves are
     equal to five new ones."--(_Times, July 16, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At a period when every species of grain has become both scarce,
     and dear, it is the duty of every individual to inform the public
     of any possible diminution in the consumption. It is with this
     view that we feel much satisfaction in announcing to all who keep
     horses for draught, that a saving of _twenty-five per cent._ in
     Oats, has been introduced into the stables of Thrale's Brewhouse,
     in the Borough, since the month of September last, which we are
     happy to learn has been adopted by several other principal
     manufacturers. Their plan is simply to _roll all their oats_
     between two iron cilinders, which they have attached to their
     steam engine. By this process, an _increase_ is found of two
     bushels a _sack_. After being well rolled (which is usually done
     twice, or thrice, a week) the Oats are _mixed with chaff_ of the
     best quality, and divided in the usual manner. This mode of
     rolling, is deemed equal to mastication. It is found, from
     experience, equally beneficial to _old_ horses, whose teeth may
     be impaired, as well as _young_ horses, who often return home
     very hungry, and are apt to swallow their oats without chewing
     them, by which means they are frequently observed to pass through
     them undigested."--(_Times, July 16, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is now almost the prevailing custom in every family of
     distinction, to have the loaf brought on the table, and each
     person to help himself. This example must have a considerable
     influence in reducing the consumption of this, as well as other,
     necessaries of life.

     "The custom of wearing Hair-Powder is growing into very general
     disuse: and we shall not be surprised if we soon see it almost
     altogether abolished, during the present scarcity of grain.

     "The recommendation of the Privy Council, to adopt the use of
     Household Bread, will be of little avail, unless their _request_
     is converted into an _order_, that no bread, above that standard,
     shall hereafter be baked: and every idea of expediency, and
     common policy, demands that some measure of this tendency should
     immediately be enforced."--(_Times, July 17, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There is no economy more laudable at this moment, than that of
     lessening the consumption of bread, in private families. This has
     been practised with such success, by Mr. Parish, on Ludgate Hill,
     that he now consumes but four Brown loaves per week, in lieu of
     twelve, or thirteen, White ones, as formerly. This is a most
     notable example, and, we trust, will be imitated by many, though
     perhaps with somewhat less rigour. Mr. P.'s substitute for bread,
     are, principally, potatoes, and rice."--(_Times, July 18, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In Sussex, the Gentry have adopted the most rational mode of
     diminishing the price of Corn. Instead of supplying the poor with
     bread, at a low price, which can only tend to increase the
     consumption, they give pickled pork, &c., to an equal amount,
     which, with the use of cabbage, beans, &c., may banish, without
     much suffering, the loaf, at least, from their dinner
     tables."--(_Times, July 20, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "After the humane example of the City, in leaving off their
     annual feasts, we are happy to find it is _intended_ to be
     universally adopted by the surrounding parishes, and opulent
     families; _particularly_ by some of the principal inhabitants of
     _Whitechapel_, who, at one of their Greenwich meetings, on
     Monday, wisely determined to eat venison, and white-bait, _no
     longer than the season will produce them_."--(_Times, July 22,
     1795._)

[Illustration: A pretty Bar-maid.]

Some of the following set of moral rules might be followed with
advantage at the present day:--

     "THE WAY TO PEACE AND PLENTY.

     Rules for the rich.

     1. Abolish gravy soups, and second courses.

     2. Buy no starch when wheat is dear.

     3. Destroy all useless dogs.

     4. Give no dog, or other animal, the _smallest bit_ of bread or
     meat.

     5. Save all your skim-milk carefully, and give it all to the
     poor, or sell it at a cheap rate.

     6. Make broth, rice pudding, &c., for the poor, and teach them to
     make such things.

     7. Go to church yourselves, and take care your servants go
     constantly.

     8. Look into the management of your own families, and visit your
     poor neighbours.

     9. Prefer those poor who keep steadily to their work, and go
     constantly to church, and give nothing to those who are idle, and
     riotous, or keep useless dogs.

     10. Buy no weighing meat, or gravy beef: if the rich would buy
     only the prime pieces, the poor could get the others cheap.


     Rules for the Poor.

     1. Keep steadily to your work, and never change masters, if you
     can help it.

     2. Go to no gin-shop, or alehouse: but lay out all your earnings
     in food, and cloaths, for yourself, and your family: and try to
     lay up a little for rent, and rainy days.

     3. Avoid bad company.

     4. Keep no dogs: for they rob your children, and your neighbours.

     5. Go constantly to church, and carry your wives, and children,
     with you, and God will bless you.

     6. Be civil to your superiors, and they will be kind to you.

     7. Learn to make broth, milk pottage, rice-pudding, &c. One
     pound of meat, in broth, will go further than two pounds boiled,
     or roasted.

     8. Be quiet, and contented, and never steal, or swear, or you
     will never thrive."--(_Times, July 23, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday, the _Stationers'_ Company had their annual dinner, at
     Stationers' Hall. Having determined, in consequence of the great
     scarcity of flour, to abolish the use of pies, they contented
     themselves with several haunches of venison, and a number of
     _venison pasties_, which consumed flour enough for 50 fruit pies.
     And in order to adopt the above resolution of no pies, the Court
     of Assistants had, previously, a snug dinner, consisting of all
     the delicacies of the season. Of public dinners, those of the
     Stationers Company rival every other. We have not yet heard of
     the Company having contributed anything to the relief of the
     poor."--(_Times, Aug. 14, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "One among the serious consequences of the dearness of
     provisions, is, that the price of board in schools, is
     considerably raised. There are few schools of repute, that have
     not raised their terms, at least five guineas a year."--(_Times,
     Oct. 8, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The price of butter, in all parts of the country, has been,
     lately, most shamefully advanced, without any cause to justify
     the measure. The season has, hitherto, been favourable to
     grazing, and the war cannot extend its influence to our dairies.
     On the same principle, the late advance in the price of Milk, in
     the Metropolis, should be enquired into. London is supplied with
     Milk by about 30 cow-keepers, who may at pleasure either deprive
     the city of this necessary article, or extort what price they may
     think proper for it. Milk should be made subject to the
     regulations respecting bread, beer, &c., as, indeed, should every
     similar commodity."--(_Times, Feb. 15, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In consequence of the public refraining to buy fresh butter, the
     price fell from 14-1/2d. to 9d. and 10d. per pound, in Sheffield
     Market, last week. And so it would be in London, if every family
     would consent to buy Cambridge butter, for a few days, or to
     allow only half the quantity of fresh to be taken in, which is
     usually consumed."--(_Times, Mar. 2, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Beef Trade, though it declined a market day, or two, in the
     heat of the weather, is nearly up again to its enormous Spring
     prices: a good bullock being now worth 4s. 6d. per stone. Veal,
     Mutton, and Lamb, are getting down, but Pork still fetches 10s. a
     score. Lean stock, of every kind, is excessively dear, and
     difficult to be obtained, on any terms, that of the sheep kind,
     in particular."--(_Times, Sep. 5, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The great importance of the Distilleries, in the article of
     fatted hogs, may be judged of, in some degree, by the number
     turned out of the distilleries, in Surrey alone, which are
     estimated at 11,700 a year, valued at £46,215, besides the great
     number fed in the starch yards. It is said, that all the
     distilleries in the Kingdom, when in full work, send to market,
     weekly, near 30,000 hogs: during the last year, they were at a
     total stand, and the price of bacon has been enormous."--(_Times,
     Oct. 26, 1796._)

Some of the great ones of the land set a good example of economy to
their poorer brethren--the King among the number.

     "The Margrave of Anspach sets a princely example of economy to
     his betters: his table is furnished by contract, and the daily
     expence exceeds not half-a-guinea per head. Of course, the
     purveyor takes the needful care of broken victuals: whilst Sir
     Harry, and the Duke's servant, fare equally alike in that larder,
     where Miss _Kitty_ or Mrs. _Cook_ have nought to give, but bread
     and cheese, and kisses."--(_Times, June 22, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "His Majesty has given orders for the bread used in his
     household, to be made of meal, and rye, mixed. No other sort is
     permitted to be baked, and the Royal Family eat bread of the same
     quality as their servants do. It is extremely sweet, and
     palatable.

     "One half flour, and half potatoes, also make a very excellent
     bread."--(_Times, July 22, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The writer of this paragraph has seen the bread that is eaten
     at His Majesty's table. It consists of two sorts only, the one
     composed of wheaten flour, and rye, mixed; the other is half
     wheaten flour, half potatoe flour. If ever example deserved
     imitation, it is surely this."--(_Times, July 30, 1795._)

The Court of Aldermen had the power of apportioning the price of bread
according to the price of wheat--thus affording the baker a fair
profit, and protecting the consumer.

     "Yesterday, a Court of Aldermen was held at Guildhall, which came
     to a resolution to raise the price of bread to a Shilling the
     Quartern Loaf."--(_Times, July 8, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The price of Flour having risen 4s. per sack, the Court of
     Common Council ordered the assize of bread to one shilling and a
     halfpenny per quartern loaf."--(_Times, July 23, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Tuesday, a Court of Aldermen was held at Guildhall. The Court
     ordered the price of bread to remain at 1s. 3d. the quartern
     loaf.

     "The Court having considered the petition of the Retail Dealers
     in Salt, for an advance, were pleased to order the price of salt
     to be fixed as follows, viz., 8s. per bushel, 4s. per half ditto,
     2s. per peck, 1s. per half ditto, 6d. per quarter ditto, 3d. per
     half-quarter peck, 2d. per pound, 1d. per half ditto."--(_Times,
     March 10, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Assize of Bread.

     "The regulation of the Assize of Bread being generally
     misunderstood, the following tables, extracted from the Act of
     Parliament of the 31st Geo. II. will at once shew, by what
     authority, the Magistrates regulate the Price of Bread, with the
     allowance to Bakers of 1s. 6d. per bushel for wheat, and 10s. per
     sack for flour: a reference to which tables, will enable every
     person to ascertain the price of the quartern, and peck, loaf,
     as well as the Magistrates themselves: and will prove that the
     letter of the law, and not the will of the Magistrates, regulates
     that necessary article. At the same time, the public will be
     convinced, that the average price of flour is more in favour of
     the consumer, than that of wheat. For example--the average price
     of wheat, this day, is 9s. per bushel. The allowance to the
     baker, is 1s. 6d. The quartern loaf would then be 1s.--whereas,
     the average price of flour being 63s. and 4d., the Magistrates
     are enabled to make the Assize of Bread 11d. instead of 1s.

     WHEAT.

  +---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+-----------+
  |   When the    |               | Total Price,  |           |           |
  | Average Price | Allowance to  | including the | Quartern  | Peck Loaf |
  |  of Wheat is  |  the Baker.   |   Allowance   |   Loaf    |           |
  |  per Bushel.  |               |               |           |           |
  +---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+-----------+
  |      7/       |     1/6       |     8/6       |   /9-3/4  |   3/3     |
  |      7/3      |      "        |     8/9       |  /10      |   3/4     |
  |      7/6      |      "        |     9/        |  /10-1/4  |   3/5     |
  |      7/9      |      "        |     9/3       |  /10-1/2  |   3/6     |
  |      8/       |      "        |     9/6       |  /10-3/4  |   3/7-1/4 |
  |      8/3      |      "        |     9/9       |  /11      |   3/8     |
  |      8/6      |      "        |    10/        |  /11-1/2  |   3/10    |
  |      9/       |      "        |    10/6       | 1/        |   4/      |
  +---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+-----------+


     FLOUR.

  +---------------+---------------+--------------+-----------+-----------+
  |    When the   |               |              |           |           |
  | Average Price | Allowance to  | Total Price. | Quartern  | Peck Loaf |
  |  of Flour is  |  the Baker.   |              |   Loaf    |           |
  |   per Sack.   |               |              |           |           |
  +---------------+---------------+--------------+-----------+-----------+
  |     50/       |  10/ per sack |     60/      |   /9      |    3/     |
  |     51/8      |       "       |     61/8     |   /9-1/4  |    3/1    |
  |     53/4      |       "       |     63/4     |   /9-1/2  |    3/2    |
  |     55/       |       "       |     65/      |   /9-3/4  |    3/3    |
  |     56/8      |       "       |     66/8     |  /10      |    3/4    |
  |     58/4      |       "       |     68/4     |  /10-1/4  |    3/5    |
  |     60/       |       "       |     70/      |  /10-1/2  |    3/6    |
  |     61/8      |       "       |     71/8     |  /10-3/4  |    3/7    |
  +---------------+---------------+--------------+-----------+-----------+

  --(_Times, July 1, 1796._)

The Aldermen also had the power of visiting the bakers' shops within
their Wards, of fining dishonest bakers, and distributing their bread,
gratis, to the poor,--a summary, and most effectual, way of dealing
with the rogues.

     "Wednesday, a cheap Baker in Bishopsgate-Ward was fined, by the
     Lord Mayor, 5s. per ounce, on 16 ounces short weight, in seven
     quartern, and nine penny loaves, taken by the inquest of that
     Ward from out of his shop."--(_Times, March 29, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Saturday Mr. Justice Russell, and the Peace Officers of
     Greenwich, went to all the bakers, and weighed their bread, to
     find out if the poor, and other inhabitants, had their due
     weight: when many loaves, found deficient in weight, were
     immediately given away at the doors of the bakers to those poor
     persons who were not under any relief from the parish."--(_Times,
     Jan. 12, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Monday, in consequence of an information, Mr. Justice Addington,
     attended by several officers, went to a Baker's shop, in Holborn,
     where they found 70 loaves, short of the standard weight, 181
     ounces. The Magistrate fixed the penalty of 5s. per ounce, which
     amounted to £45, 5s., but which was mitigated to £40. The
     Magistrate, and officers, then went to a Baker's in Little
     Turnstile, and found 54 loaves short of the standard, 142 ounces,
     amounting at 5s. an ounce to £36, but which was mitigated to £30.
     The loaves were distributed to the poor in the neighbourhood of
     Covent Garden."--(_Times, July 8, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A Baker was convicted, yesterday, at the Public Office,
     Whitechapel, of making Bread, to the amount of 307 ounces,
     deficient in weight, and fined in the penalty of £64,
     7s."--(_Times, Aug. 27, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A Baker was, yesterday, convicted in the penalty of £106, 5s. on
     420 ounces of bread, deficient in weight."--(_Times, Aug. 30,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Thursday a great deal of bread was brought before Alderman
     Cadell, by the Inquest of one of the City Wards, being under the
     regular standard of weight. The Alderman ordered the loaves to be
     all weighed before him, and desired the Bakers who were present,
     to attend to the weights.

     "The Bakers expressed their sorrow for it, and said it was an
     accident occasioned by the carelessness of their Journeymen, in
     suffering it to be an hour too long in the oven. They not
     bringing the men forward, to substantiate the defence, the
     Alderman told them he should fine them the full penalty, of five
     shillings an ounce, for all deficient; which came to above
     _twenty pounds_, besides the forfeiture of the bread. Mr. Kirby,
     the Keeper of Newgate, being present, solicited part of it, for
     his prisoners. Some of the Inquest likewise solicited the bread,
     for the poor of their ward: but the Alderman told them that half
     of the penalty came to them, which would compensate for the
     bread."--(_Times, Nov. 30, 1799._)

"Forestalling" and "Regrating" were heinous sins.--They consisted in
buying any thing on its way to market, before it had been exposed for
public sale--and in purchasing at any market at one price, and selling
it again at a higher.

     "In consequence of the serious enquiry making into the infamous
     practices of the salesmen, in Smithfield market, and the
     conviction of a leading man among them, for regrating, mutton,
     and lamb, fell 1-1/2d. per pound, in Friday, and yesterday's,
     market. If the Magistrates would but exert themselves, to put in
     force the laws against monopolizers, and forestallers, provisions
     would soon be at a moderate price, as we are convinced there is
     no _real_ scarcity: and are of opinion that the farmers and
     graziers, who are now holding back their corn, and cattle, will
     experience the fate of those, who, in the hard weather, refused
     to sell their potatoes under 2-1/2d. per lb., and now cannot get
     1/2d. per lb., but have the well deserved prospect of being
     obliged to give them to the hogs, for want of a
     consumption."--(_Times, May 26, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "HIGH PRICE OF MEAT. This alarming circumstance is not owing to
     any real scarcity of oxen, sheep, or hogs, but, partly, to a
     combination among the carcass-butchers in the wholesale markets,
     and the salesmen in Smithfield, who fix the prices, and who
     regulate what quantity of cattle shall come to town: and,
     partly, to a very shameful practice among the retail butchers,
     especially where a contract is made to supply a family at so much
     per pound for the year. When the butcher has made his contract at
     5d., 5-1/2d., or 6d., he can make a very great profit, although,
     as is now the case, he can purchase a carcass at 7-1/2d. in the
     wholesale markets: and the mode by which he does this, is in
     defrauding his customers of the due weight, to which the person,
     who attends to see the meat weighed, too often connives at, for a
     Christmas present, or an Easter gift. The weight, no doubt is in
     the scale, at the time of weighing: but when the meat is put by,
     in order to be sent home, a considerable part is purloined: and
     it is a well known fact, that, in these large lots, the same leg
     of beef(?) has been weighed to, perhaps, ten or twelve families,
     in the same day, and not sent to any of them. The leg is
     considered as the most convenient for this theft, because it is
     so large, and is, when weighed with the lot, hung on the end of
     the beam of the scales, from whence it is taken down, and thrown,
     not where it ought, with the meat, but to another part of the
     shop. If this was not the case, how is it possible that a butcher
     can make a livelihood, when he buys 2d. per pound dearer than he
     sells? The fact speaks for itself. The mode which all families
     should adopt, is to weigh their meat when it is sent
     home."--(_Times, July 3, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A few days ago, 11 acres of growing wheat, belonging to the Duke
     of Hamilton, in Scotland, were sold at £20 per acre. This species
     of forestalling, we fear, is now too generally attempted, which
     is evidently most injurious to the community, viz., 'to buy corn
     growing in the fields.' This practice, surely, has a direct, and
     apparent, tendency to enhance the present price of corn: also,
     that of 'selling corn in the sheaf.' We think it expedient,
     however, to notify, that both these practices are deemed highly
     criminal by the 'common law of England,' and for which the
     offenders may be indicted, and punished, as they deserve, with
     great severity, viz., by fines, pillory, and imprisonment. See
     _Inst. 197_: also _Hawk_ c. 30."--(_Times, Aug. 19, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The contrivances to keep up the price of wheat, having been
     discovered, and defeated, we hope the attention of the worthy
     Chief Magistrate will now be directed towards some plan for the
     relief of the Metropolis, against the extortion of the Graziers,
     and Salesmen, in Smithfield Market. The prices of the latter, on
     Monday, were higher than almost ever remembered, and mutton is
     now sold at 7-1/2d. per lb. What real cause there is for such
     extravagant prices, after such a mild winter, is a matter we are
     at a loss to account for."--(_Times, April 13, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An action for regrating, in Smithfield Market, is now pending in
     the Court of Common Pleas: against one of the five brothers, who
     have so long supported themselves, and their families, by jobbing
     in Cattle at that Market. A Carcass Butcher, in Whitechapel, is
     also in dread of a similar action, the penalties on which will be
     very heavy, as it is for purchasing near 70 oxen, on a Friday,
     driving them to his farm, near Clapton, and bringing them to
     Smithfield, for sale, on the following Monday."--(_Times, Nov.
     29, 1796._)

Before this time of Scarcity, however, the good folks did not deny
themselves luxuries of the table, nor, seemingly, care what they paid
for them.

     "The first _green peas_ which have been produced this season,
     were sold, on Monday, in Covent Garden market, at _twelve
     shillings_ per pottle."--(_Times, April 17, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "As a proof of the forwardness of the season, green peas have
     already made their appearance in Covent Garden market, where they
     are retailed to the _curious in vegetables_ at the moderate price
     of _two guineas a quart_."--(_Times, March 1, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Fishmongers Company are such jolly _soles_, as to have
     annually nine quarts of peas at a guinea a quart."--(_Times, May
     16, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lemons have attained a price never before arrived at in London,
     namely, ninepence each; buying them wholesale, the price is at
     the rate of from 6d. to 8d. each. About 400,000 were imported
     during the week from St. Ubes, and as a large supply is daily
     expected, the prices must of course fall."--(_Times, Jany. 2,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The arrival of the Lisbon fleet, will make Lemons once more
     plenty. They were sold, a week ago, at the enormous price of 1s.
     a piece."--(_Times, July 16, 1799._)

It may be interesting to some to learn when Sea Kale first came into
use.

     Advt.--"SEA-KALE, a new Culinary Vegetable----Mr. Curtis
     respectfully informs the Nobility and Gentry, that the small
     quantity of Sea-Kale fit for the table, which he has to dispose
     of this season, will by his appointment, be sold by Messrs.
     Dickson and Anderson, Seedsmen, Covent Garden Market, to whom he
     will continue to send it daily, fresh cut, for the short period
     it may last. Printed directions for dressing it, are tied up with
     each bundle."--(_Times, April 30, 1795._)

In the subjoined advertisement we learn the prices, and qualities, of
various Wines, and the list gives us all the information required to
find out the different sorts of wine then drank.

     "At Priddy's Foreign Warehouse, and Vaults, No. 14 Poland St., a
     large quantity of the following Wines, &c., which being, himself,
     the Importer of, can warrant genuine, at the following prices,
     viz., at per Dozen:--

       Ten years old Sherry     25/
       Red Port, vintage 1788   20/
       Old Lisbon               20/
       Calcavella               22/
       Fine Hock                30/
       Vin de Grave             26/
       Madeira                  36/
       Claret                   36/
       Ditto, first growth      42/
       Burgundy                 60/
       Red Champagne            70/
       White   "                70/
       Hermitage                42/
       Frontigniac              36/

     "Rich Aliatico, and Montepulciano, Florence Wines, real Cogniac
     Brandy, Jamaica Rum, Rotterdam Geneva, and Orange Shrub, on the
     very lowest terms."--(_Times, April 16, 1793._)

Coals, though, of course, not an article of Food, were undoubtedly of
use in cooking it: and may therefore be mentioned here. Our
Grandfathers paid very dearly for them: but it must be remembered
there was no land carriage, and a continued contrary wind, or a "hot
press," would leave the London Market bare. The magnificent basins of
Inland Coals were scarcely known, and only those like the Moira
Collieries, near to a Canal, could be worked. They were sold to the
consumer at per Chaldron of 2800 lbs., and the prices below quoted
represent them ex-ship. Add to this the cost of delivery and profit
12s., and take the Sovereign as being worth 30s., and it will much
account for the small stoves then in vogue.

     "The price of Coals in the Pool, yesterday, were:--Best 43s.
     Inferior sorts from 36s. to 38s. Delivered to housekeepers 49s.
     to 44s. The price rose considerably yesterday from a report that
     several colliers had been captured."--(_Times, Feby. 12, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "COAL EXCHANGE.

     "On Monday the price was 70s. per Chaldron all sorts.

     On Wednesday, the price was 60s. and some sorts lower.

     On Yesterday, the price was 50s. to 45s. per Chaldron.

     We are happy at giving such an agreeable account to our
     readers."--(_Times, March 7, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The prices of Coals still continue very high, notwithstanding
     above 100 ships have, this week, arrived at market, which are
     nearly all sold from 38s. to 44s. per Chaldron: so that the best
     sorts cannot be fairly delivered under 50s. per Chaldron. The
     number of ships taken out of the trade, into the transport, and
     other services, is the cause of the present high price, as the
     demand is greater than the supply."--(_Times, Oct. 4, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Many complaints have been made of the high price of coals, and
     it is supposed to arise from a combination, but we are well
     assured no such cause exists. The long frost having stopped the
     navigation of the Thames, what coals remained in the lighters,
     and barges, were nearly exhausted at the wharfs, and naturally,
     every man possessed of a commodity, looks to extraordinary
     profits on unusual events, which has, we understand, occasioned
     six, and seven, guineas to be given for a chaldron of coals,
     within a few days past, but, had the frost continued, coals would
     have been considerably cheaper, than at present, as the ice
     admitted the coals being worked over it. There are, at present,
     near 50 sail of colliers in the river, not unladen, which contain
     about 10,000 chaldrons, for an immediate supply, (but not ten
     times that quantity, as erroneously stated in most of the papers)
     and, before they can be consumed, we may expect a fresh fleet at
     Market."--(_Times, Jany. 30, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday, there was only one ship of coals, at Market, which
     sold at three guineas and a half per chaldron. About 30 sail more
     were at sea, and forced into the Humber."--(_Times, Feby. 24,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Coals were on Friday (_12th April_) sold in the Pool at five
     guineas per Chaldron. There was only one ship-load at
     market."--(_Times, April 15, 1799._)


THE ROAD AND STREETS.

The Highways and Streets were in very far from good condition, the
roads being full of ruts, and the streets when paved, were made of
large "Cobble" Stones, and were full of holes, ofttimes very
dangerous, as we shall see. The foot pavement, except in some of the
best streets, which were flagged, was very narrow, and made of
"Kidney" stones on end, such as may still be met with in the bye-ways
of some country towns. Consequently no one stirred out more than they
could help; the men always on horseback, if single--by "Post," if
accompanied by ladies. It will have been noticed in "Men's dress"
that they all wear boots, if not in the house, and the reason is
plain--they had to be protected against the mud of the streets, and
ready for the saddle. Every man had to learn to ride, and no doubt
this laid the foundation of the Continental opinion, that every
Englishman is a good horseman.

     "Young Gentlemen during their Holidays, are supplied with gentle
     pleasant Horses of all sizes, and the most careful Attendance and
     Instructions for £2 12 6

       A Horse to ride for Exercise in the House        0  3 6
       Twelve lessons when convenient                   2  7 6
       Sixteen lessons in four weeks                    2  7 0
       Single lesson                                    0  5 0
       Book of Instructions for Ladies                  0  5 6
       Breaking a horse                                 2  7 6 &c."

     --(_Morning Post, Jany. 2, 1788._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Advt.--_A CAUTION_ to all Gentlemen who drive Jobb Horses by
     their own Coachmen, the Gentleman paying yearly wages to them:
     From a Gentleman who has had experience of it.--That the
     Coachmaster and Coachmen do agree, the one to give, the other to
     receive, annually, a certain sum of money, which can be for no
     other purpose than to defraud their employers, demanding so much
     more for the price of their horses, to bribe the said Coachmen to
     conceal defects in them, and to engage the said Coachmaster to
     recommend the said Coachmen: and so vice-versa to employ each
     other, if out of place or business. This is a most dishonest, but
     general practice of the Coachmasters. The writer of this, to
     avoid and discourage the practice of this Knavery, has purchased
     his own horses, persuaded no other means will be effectual. This
     is written merely to put Gentlemen on their guard, at the expense
     of the Advertiser, and will not be inserted again."--(_Times,
     July 2, 1795._)

Of course those that could afford it travelled Post--which was charged
one shilling per horse per mile, besides a gratuity to the "boy," but
this was raised to fourteen pence in 1796, when food became so dear.

     "So great is the itch of pleasure at this time of year, that on
     Sundays it is difficult to find post-horses in London. Last
     Sunday General _Fox_, and several other persons of Consideration,
     who had business out of town, were confined for want of them,
     though they sent as far as the extremity of
     Whitechapel."--(_Times, Sept. 2, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The rate of _Posting_ still continues at 14d. per mile, and
     nothing but the unanimous determination of the public to resist
     so extravagant a charge, can possibly do it away. Some few Post
     Masters have, it is true, advertised at 1s., but the general rate
     still remains at 14d. This charge took its rise from the
     scarcity, and, consequently, the high price of corn: but, at this
     moment, when corn has fell one third, nothing can justify the
     continuance of what may be justly reprobated as an
     _imposition_."--(_Times, July 9, 1796._)

But it was not every one who could afford Posting or even the Stage
Coach,--for them existed the "Stage Wagon"--a most cumbrous affair
with very broad wheels--and some eight horses, the driver being
mounted on a pony--so as to be able to ride round his team. The
following is a very humorous story of a journey by Wagon:--

     "A DELIGHTFUL RIDE,

     "In the ten-wheeled Caravan, from Greenwich to London.

     "We were twenty-four passengers within side, and nine without. It
     was my lot to sit in the middle, with a very lusty woman on one
     side, and a very thin man on the other. 'Open the window,' said
     the former, and she had a child on her lap, whose hands and face
     were all besmeared with gingerbread. 'It can't be opened,' said a
     little prim coxcomb, 'or I shall get cold.'--'But I say it
     shall, Sir,' said a Butcher, who sat opposite to him, and the
     Butcher opened it; but, as he stood, or rather bent forward to do
     this, the caravan came into a rut, and the Butcher's head, by the
     suddenness of the jolt, came into contact with that of the woman
     who sat next to me, and made her nose bleed. He begged her
     pardon, and she gave him a slap on the face that sounded through
     the whole caravan. Two sailors, that were seated near the helm of
     this machine, ordered the driver to cast anchor at the next
     public-house. He did so; and the woman next to me, called for a
     pot of ale, which she offered to me, after she had emptied about
     a pint of it, observing, that 'as how she loved ale mightily.' I
     could not drink, at which she took much offence; and said, 'I was
     mighty squeamish; but thank God, she was as good as I, and kept a
     lodging-house in Craven St., where she saw _her betters_ every
     day, and so,' continues she, 'here's to you, my dear:' and she
     finished the pot. A violent dispute now arose between two stout
     looking men, the one a Recruiting Sergeant, and the other a
     Gentleman's Coachman, about the _Rights of Man_: and, having
     struck two or three blows in the Caravan, they got out into the
     road, to decide whether _Tom Paine_ was an _Atheist_, or a
     _Deist_. In this contest, victory fell to the Sergeant, and the
     driver of the horses was so mauled by the leader of men, that he
     was lifted into the vehicle, where he sat in sullen silence all
     the rest of the journey.

     "Another dispute afterwards arose about politics, which was
     carried on with such warmth, as to draw the attention of the
     company to the head of the Caravan, where the combatants sat
     wedged together like two pounds of Epping butter, whilst a child
     incessantly roared at the opposite side, and the mother abused
     the two politicians for frightening her babe. The heat was now so
     great that all the windows were opened, and with the fresh air,
     entered clouds of dust, for the body of the machine is but a few
     inches from the surface of the road.

     "I trust, Mr. Conductor, you will give this journey to London, a
     place in your paper, and, I am, &c. &c.

                                         "Lucy Treadneedle."

     --(_Times, Sept. 5, 1794._)

It will be noticed that then, as now, the _Times_, was a powerful organ
for calling public attention to social grievances, and that people
"wrote to" that paper as at the present time. We, in our time, know
the little social inconveniences arising from staying at Hotels,
where, not only does the proprietor charge for attendance, which we,
no more than the writer of this letter, can understand is not included
in his servants' wages--but we, also, if we want good attendance, have
to "tip" the servants as well.

     "To the CONDUCTOR of the TIMES.

     "Sir,--Having frequent occasion to travel many of the principal
     roads of England, I have often witnessed the exorbitant demands
     of Inn-keepers, and the no less serious ones of their domestics,
     sanctioned only by custom, yet arisen to such a pitch as to
     become a burthen unable to be borne by the _poor Tradesman_ who
     is obliged to travel to sell his goods, as well as an
     inconvenience to the person in _middling circumstances_ of
     _life_, who, for his health, or otherwise, has occasion to
     travel. Grievances (the latter of which especially), are only
     suffered to exist from the disinclination people have to break
     through a custom, or to appear singular. Having hinted at the
     former, I shall only shew the nature, and point out a remedy for
     the latter. It is well known, that let an Innkeeper's bill be
     ever so exorbitant, you must not only comply with it, but also
     give the servants just as much as if it was reasonable: so that
     there is no end of the expence: for instance, if a man who has a
     horse, puts up at an inn, besides the usual bill, he must at
     least give 1_s._ to the waiter, 6_d._ to the chamber-maid, 6_d._
     to the hostler, and 6_d._ to the jack-boot, making together 2_s._
     6_d._, and this to be repeated every night he lays on the road (I
     speak now of what's expected from those who appear in middling
     circumstances of life). The same expence in proportion occurs in
     the course of the day: at breakfast, you must give at least 6_d._
     between the waiter and hostler. If the traveller only puts up to
     have a refreshment, besides paying for his horse's standing, he
     must give 3_d._ to the hostler: at dinner 6_d._ to the waiter and
     3_d._ to the hostler: at tea 6_d._ between them, so that he gives
     away in the day 2_s._ 6_d._, which added to the 2_s._ 6_d._ for
     the night, makes 5_s._ per day on an average to servants. Thus he
     is putting his hand in his pocket from morning till night, not
     merely to satisfy the Landlord's demand, but to appease the
     croaking of domestics, who, it is well known, will let you see,
     or feel, their displeasure in some way or other if you do not, so
     that it is disagreeable to go to that inn the second time where
     you do not behave with profuseness at the first, and there is
     not only the above inconvenience, but also this, that after all
     your givings they are not satisfied, but often abuse you for your
     liberality. The following anecdote proves this:--Coming home from
     Colchester some time since, I put up at an Inn at Ingatestone,
     the Innkeeper's bill was as follows:--Supper 1_s._, beer 3_d._,
     bed 1_s._, horse and corn 1_s._ 7_d._--together 3_s._ 10_d._ I
     gave away as follows: waiter 1_s._, chambermaid 6_d._, jack-boot
     6_d._, hostler, the change out of 2_s._ I paid him for the horse,
     being 5_d._, together 2_s._ 5_d._, being 1_s._ 5_d._ less than
     the bill. Yet the hostler was so abusive, because I did not give
     him more than the odd 5_d._ change, that he actually threatened
     me that he would mark me if I came there again. I therefore did,
     what I wish every one would do in the like case, punish him on
     the spot for his insolence. I appeared to relent that I had not
     given him more, and desired him to give me the half-pence again
     that I might see for silver for him, which after he had done, I
     rode off, leaving him to repent he had not kept what I first gave
     him. It may be alleged that these servants have little or no
     wages, and therefore ought to receive liberally. Be that as it
     may, it is very hard that I am to pay wages to another man's
     servants. I pay the master his bill, in which he makes a charge
     sufficient to cover his servants' wages, and then he leaves me to
     pay his servants besides. If Innkeepers have nothing to pay for
     servants, their charges ought to be reasonable in proportion. But
     I would meet another objection that is likely to be made, which
     is, that what is given to servants at inns is not to be
     considered as wages, but as their perquisites. There are two
     answers to this, the one, that the very notion of perquisites,
     signifies something gotten over and above their usual wages,
     whereas it is notorious, that most Innkeepers allow their
     servants no wages: the other, that perquisites signify a gift,
     now a gift is free, and may be much, or little, as suits the
     inclination of the giver, but, according to the modern custom at
     inns, he is not permitted to use his discretion, but there must
     be a settled sum given to each servant, fixed as to the lowest
     quantum, though as much above that mark as he pleases, and, if he
     gives less than custom warrants, they have the impudence to tell
     him of it. Besides, why should Innkeepers, be exempted from
     paying their servants wages, any more than any other tradesman.
     If I go into a shop, to buy a few yards of any thing, I am not
     charged so much for the trouble of the shopman who cut it off.
     Tradesmen are contented to pay their servants out of the profit
     of their bills, without saddling it upon their customers: and I
     am fully persuaded, were travellers of all descriptions to
     withhold for a certain time their usual gifts to servants at
     inns, it would ultimately tend to the benefit of those servants
     themselves, as well as the comfort of travellers, for when the
     servants find their finances so low, they would insist upon, and
     would not hire themselves without stipulated wages, after which,
     travellers might again resume their former generosity, and what
     they then gave, would be looked upon in the light it ought, as a
     gift, and not a debt.

                                        "A Constant Reader."

     --(_Times, Oct. 17, 1795._)

The following notices will show that, what with over-crowding, and bad
roads, accidents were as frequent by road as they are now by
rail--indeed, the per centage, considering the relative number of
passengers, was much greater. The _basket_ mentioned below, was a huge
wicker work machine attached to the Coach, intended to carry parcels.

     "Yesterday the driver of the Chelmsford and London Stage Coach,
     was convicted before the Magistrates at the Public Office,
     Whitechapel, in three separate penalties of 40_s._ each, for
     suffering more than six persons to ride on the roof of the said
     Coach.

     "The owner and driver of the Bishop Stortford, and London, Stage
     Coach, was also convicted in the penalty of £4 for the same
     offence: and the driver of the Westham Stage Coach, in the same
     penalty, for suffering eight persons to ride on the roof of the
     said Coach."--(_Times, Oct. 5, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In despite of continual and fatal accidents, not to mention the
     inferior consideration of pains and penalties, the Stage Coaches
     still continue to carry extra numbers on the outside. There were
     _eleven_ on the coach, and box, of the Gosport Coach, beside the
     driver, and _nine_ in the basket, on Thursday last."--(_Times,
     Oct. 16, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The pavement in Bridge St. Blackfriars, which has been so long
     in a most dangerous state, has sunk near a foot more, within the
     last week, so that the roof of the main shore is every hour
     expected to give way."--(_Times, Aug. 6, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Wednesday afternoon, about four o'clock, the Boston Coach
     broke down, on the lowest part of Snow Hill, soon after it left
     the Saracen's Head Inn. The outside passengers, which were
     FOURTEEN in number, and mostly soldiers, were thrown with such
     violence on the pavement, that several were bruised, and one
     woman was taken to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where she died, on
     Thursday night. The inside passengers, which were five, and a
     young child, were not much hurt.

     "The frequent accidents which arise from the outsides of coaches
     being so overladen, calls highly for reprehension. The laws are
     either inadequate to remedy the evil, or they are not properly
     enforced: and we sincerely hope that the coachman, and those who
     are concerned, will be severely punished, as an example to
     prevent the same accidents in future. We think there should be a
     fresh Act of Parliament, and, if the inside passengers were
     empowered, after taking their seats, to hire a post-chaise where
     there was above a stipulated number (at the owner's expence), it
     would remedy the evil."--(_Times, Aug. 8, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The pavement in Bridge St. Blackfriars, still grows worse, and
     worse, and not the least notice is taking of it by the Paving
     Committee. This is a most scandalous act of neglect; as,
     publicly, and privately, the parties have been applied to, who
     ought to make the necessary repairs. The ground has now sunk near
     three feet. In so well regulated a city, as that of London, this
     is a most disgraceful business."--(_Times, Oct., 16, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A few days since, the axle-tree of a carriage was broken in
     descending the slope of Blackfriars Bridge, in consequence of the
     very large hole, at the bottom of it, on the Surry-side, which is
     in the highest degree dangerous. We are not certain that an
     indictment would not lay against the Trustees of the Surry Roads,
     for the scandalous manner in which they are kept. They vie with
     the Paviours, in some parts of the City, and we know not which
     are the worst of them. It is not to be conceived the number of
     horses that are foundered, by holes in the streets, and
     roads."--(_Times, Oct. 5, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "From the dangerous state of the pavement in some parts of
     London, it might be supposed that the Public paid nothing towards
     it. The thoroughfare about the New Church, in the Strand, is so
     bad, that two, or three, accidents have lately happened by horses
     tumbling down, from their feet catching in the holes."--(_Times,
     Sept. 30, 1799._)




GAMING, &c.


We, in this Nineteenth Century of ours, are not so free from the vice
of gambling, that we can afford the luxury of being particularly
censorious over the habits of the last century. We have legislated
against gambling, we are better educated, all our surroundings are
refined, compared to those which our forefathers had to make the most
of. Literature, Art, and Music, are all far more popular, and yet--are
there not Clubs, thinly veiled indeed, but really, and truly, solely
existing for card playing for high stakes, as much as Crockford's ever
was? Have we not reduced the Turf to a science? and has it not come to
such a pass, that an honest Nobleman like Lord Falmouth, will no
longer run his race horses, because of the roguery on the Turf? Is not
the Stock Exchange one huge Gamble? Therefore, in reading the notes
about gaming, in "Old Times," let us remember the beams in our own
eyes, before making a fuss about the motes, that used to be in the
eyes of those that are dead and gone.

But, although Card playing was the rule at every house, in the
evening, yet some did not play, and the utter weariness which is
shewn in this little sketch of Gillray's, is extremely natural and
vivid.

It is in 1789 that we first hear of Lady Archer, who, with Lady
Buckinghamshire, figures so prominently in keeping gaming tables.

[Illustration: A lady at a Card Party who does not play.--1788.]

     "The Lady Archer, whose death was announced in this paper of
     Saturday, is not the celebrated character whose _cosmetic powers_
     have been long held in public estimation."--(_Morning Post, Jan.
     5, 1789._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is said that the dealers in _Carmine and dead white_, as well
     as the _Perfumers_ in general, have it in contemplation to
     present an address to Lady Archer, in gratitude for her not
     having DIED according to a late alarming report."--(_Morning
     Post, Jan. 8, 1789._)

"A Kick up at a Hazard Table," by Rowlandson, is not only well
drawn--but, doubtless, depicts a gambling affray, to the life.

Lady Archer, and Lady Buckinghamshire did not monopolise the gaming
tables, there were other ladies in the field, and, as the game
generally played, was _Faro_, these _brelandieres_ were called _Faro's
Daughters_.

     "Mrs. Sturt's house, in St. James Square, was opened yesterday
     evening, for the first time this season, for public play. The
     visitors were numerous."--(_Times, Feb. 5, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Many of our young sprigs of fashion, when the campaign opens,
     will have other game to attend to than the game of Faro. By
     risquing their persons they may serve their country; but by
     risquing their property, they can neither benefit the nation, nor
     do any good to themselves. Cocking a fire lock will redound more
     to their honour than cocking a card: and as they are fond of a
     game of _Hazard_, let them take the _chance_ of the field, in
     preference to that of the gaming table:

     "Some of the _Faro Ladies_ have opened their play houses, and
     announced the _Road to Ruin_ until further notice. The
     _Gamesters_ was publicly rehearsed in St. James Square on Monday
     night."--(_Times, Feb. 6, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The number of new gaming-houses, established at the West End of
     the town, is, indeed, a matter of very serious evil: but they are
     not likely to decrease while examples of the same nature are held
     forth in the higher circles of life. It is needless to point out
     any one of these houses in particular: it is sufficient for us to
     expose the tricks that are practised at many of them to swindle
     the unsuspecting young men of fortune who are entrapped into
     these whirlpools of destruction. The first thing necessary is, to
     give the guests a good dinner and plenty of wine, which many of
     these houses do, gratis. When they are sufficiently intoxicated,
     and, having lost all the money about them, their acceptance is
     obtained to Bills of Exchange to a considerable amount, which
     frequently are paid to avoid the disagreeable circumstance of a
     public exposition in a Court of Justice, which is always
     threatened, though the gamesters well know that no such measure
     durst be adopted by them.

     "Should any reluctance, or hesitation, be shewn by the injured
     party, to accept these bills, he is shewn into a long room, with
     a target at the end of it, and several pistols lying about, where
     he is given to understand these sharpers practice a considerable
     time of the day in shooting at a mark, and have arrived to such
     perfection in this exercise, that either of them can shoot a
     pistol ball within an inch of the mark, from the common distance
     taken by duellists. A hint is then dropped, that further
     hesitation will render the use of the pistols necessary, and
     which will again be the case, should he ever divulge what he has
     seen, and heard.

     "If further particulars, or proofs, are wanting, they may be
     known on application to certain _Military characters_, who have
     already made some noise in the world."--(_Times, Feb. 14, 1793._)

The Illustration "Modern Hospitality, or a Friendly Party in High
Life," is by Gillray, 31st Mar. 1792, and in it we see Lady Archer,
and Lady Buckinghamshire, keeping a Faro Bank: and, as they are rather
_passées_, the picture has the following, "To those earthly Divinities
who charmed 20 years ago, this Honorable method of banishing
mortifying reflections is dedicated. O, Woman! Woman! everlasting is
your power over us, for in youth, you charm away our hearts, and in
your after years you charm away our purses!"

[Illustration: Gambling--1792.]

It is a pity we have not the key to the portraits of the bystanders,
for portraits they, undoubtedly, are, because there is such
individuality in the expression of their several countenances. The
players we can easily recognise--Lady Archer, at the extreme left, has
won largely, rouleaux of gold, and bank notes, are before her, and on
her right hand are two heaps of loose gold;--with what a smiling
countenance does the painted old gambler shew her cards, saying, "The
Knave wins all!"

Her next door neighbour, the Prince of Wales, who has staked, and
lost, his last piece, lifts his hands, and eyes, in astonishment at
the luck. Lady Buckinghamshire has doubled her stake, playing on two
cards, and is evidently annoyed at her loss--whilst poor, black
muzzled Fox, laments the loss of his last three pieces.

     "The profits of Faro are become so considerably reduced, that
     most of the Banks now lose almost every evening, after defraying
     the expences of the house, which are very considerable. Those
     _public-spirited_ Ladies who give such frequent routes, do so at
     a certain gain: for the sum of TWENTY-FIVE guineas is regularly
     advanced by the bank holders towards the night's expences. The
     _punters_ at Mrs. Hobart's, and Mrs. Sturt's, Faro Banks have
     dropped off considerably: and those who continue, are got so
     _knowing_, that heavy complaints are made that they bring no
     grist to the mill. There have not been above eight punters at
     Mrs. Sturt's bank, any night this season. The _pigeons_ are all
     flown, and the _punters_ are nothing better than
     _hawks_."--(_Times, Feb. 10, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "No less than six _Faro Banks_ are held in Pall Mall, viz.,
     Philips's, Nelson's, Curtis's, Hall's, Whitnoll's, and
     Bullock's."--(_Times, Feb. 18, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is become necessary to put our young men on their guard
     against the swindling tricks of some French ladies in this
     metropolis, of elevated rank, who have introduced assemblies in
     their lodgings, and houses, of an evening, for the purpose of
     attracting company, whose pockets are to be taxed by Gallic
     address, for the support of these nocturnal establishments.

     "In one of these, the _Lady_ who presides, has not yet lost her
     personal charms, nor those arts of seduction, and that address,
     for which her _well-informed_ countrymen are so _notorious_. She,
     however, outwitted herself some day since, by employing one of
     her mitred attendants to dispose of a watch set with diamonds.
     This right reverend Father in God turned pedlar, in his extreme
     zeal to execute the orders of his fair hostess, offered the
     bauble to a gentleman who, the evening before, had been present
     at this _splendid_ assemblage of Gallic Noblesse, and had seen
     the watch by the side of the lady herself. On finding that double
     the value was demanded for the trinket, he was at no loss to
     discover the _ways and means_ by which this gaudy display of
     independence, comfort, and hilarity, was supported."--(_Times,
     Feb. 27, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Banking _Ladies_ in St. James Square, do not see themselves
     much obliged to the _Abbé de St. Farre_, and his brother, for
     introducing so many noble Emigrants to their houses. These
     people come with their crown pieces and half-guineas, and
     absolutely form a circle round the Faro tables, to the total
     exclusion of our English Lords and Ladies, who can scarcely get
     one _punt_ during a whole evening."--(_Times, March 14, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The play at the _Faro Banks_ is reduced to so low a standard,
     except where they _punt_ on _tick_, that a _rouleau_ of 20
     guineas is quite a novelty."--(_Times, March 19, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A principal Faro Bank was broken twice last week--on Monday
     night at Mrs. Hobart's, and on Wednesday at Mrs. Concannon's. On
     the first night it lost 2000, and, on the last, 600 guineas. Lord
     C. S******* is one of the keenest _punters_ of the present day.
     Poor _Mazzinghi_, who deals the cards at Mrs. Sturt's Bank, was
     threatened on Tuesday night, by his Lordship, to have his bones
     broken, because he disputed the noble Lord's _intention of
     cocking a card_. The money was not deposited on the card in the
     regular manner, but the young Lord said he _intended_ to stake on
     the winning card, and therefore claimed it as if he had actually
     done so. Something was muttered about the _highway_, but it was
     impossible it could allude to the circumstance in
     question."--(_Times, April 29, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Mrs. G. is said to understand Faro better than any other Lady of
     the town, particularly in the art of _doubling_ the corner of a
     card, so as to win triple stakes if it is successful. She has
     _doubled_ the Faro Bank holders out of so much money, that they
     shrink at the sight of her presence. There is so much running
     upon _tick_ with the Faro Tables, that, like the Country Banks,
     they are breaking every day. They will soon want some other
     assistance than Cards, and Wax Lights, to keep up some of the
     Establishments at the West end of the town.

     "The Faro Bank holders now lose money almost every evening. The
     _punters_ are now becoming the _rooks_, and the _bankers_ the
     _pigeons_. The Ladies understand the game so well, and play so
     _keen_, that it requires the eyes of _Argus_ to detect all their
     _tricks_. As little _Quick_ says in the play, a greenhorn has
     only to put down his money, and he is sure to find some one _to
     take it up for him_."--(_Times, May 1, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A _Banking_ Lady, in St. James Square, is about to commence a
     prosecution, because it is said, that there was much _filching_
     at her Faro table. The house was quite in an uproar on Tuesday
     night, in consequence of a paragraph that appeared in a Morning
     Paper of the preceding day. The Lady _vows_ she will call in the
     aid of an _Attorney_ to _support her reputation_: and observes,
     that the _credit_ of her house will suffer if such reports are
     permitted to go unpunished. The _Faro Ladies_ are, in the
     sporting phrase, almost _done up_. Jewels, trinkets, watches,
     laces, &c., are often at the pawnbrokers, and scarce anything is
     left to raise money upon, except their _pads_. If justice is to
     be _hoodwinked_, and _gambling_, and _sharking_, permitted, why
     not make it an article of revenue, as in foreign countries, and
     lay a heavy tax on it. A tax on excessive gaming would, in the
     course of a year, produce as much as would fit out a 50 gun
     ship."--(_Times, May 2, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The war has lessened the receipt of the Faro Tables, insomuch,
     that they can barely allow _lemonade_.

     "The _Faro Tables_ now really come within the true meaning of
     _plundering_ shops. They are attended by a gang of sharpers, who
     talk of knocking down the _Croupiers_ if any offence is taken at
     the most barefaced frauds. Surely the Police may now make
     forcible entry into the Houses, fashionable, or unfashionable,
     which hold out a bait for the purpose of robbery."--(_Times, May
     3, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Faro Bank holders at the fashionable routs are nearly _done
     up_; for what with the _punters_ running away with their
     winnings, and never paying when they lose, and the 25 guineas per
     night, paid to the fashionable landladies for the use of their
     houses, the profits are pared down to a very nothing."--(_Times,
     March 28, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lord Hampden's _Faro Bank_ is broken up for the present season.
     Lady Buckinghamshire, Mrs. Sturt, and Mrs. Concannon alternately
     divide the _Beau monde_ at their respective houses. Instead of
     having two different hot suppers, at _one_ and _three_ o'clock in
     the morning, the _Faro Banks_ will now scarcely afford bread and
     cheese, and porter.

     "One of the Faro Banks in St. James Square lost 7000£ last year
     by bad debts. A young son of Levi is a considerable debtor to
     one of them; but not finding it convenient to pay what is not
     recoverable by law, he no longer appears in these fashionable
     circles."--(_Times, April 2, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A Card.--The Lady Gamblers at the West end of the town, present
     their compliments to several Ex noble Emigrés, who frequent their
     card routs, and inform them, through the channel of this paper,
     that their absence would be more agreeable than their company.
     They beg leave to suggest that hot suppers, and French wines,
     brilliant illuminations, cards, and other expences, cannot be
     afforded out of the profits of such _peddling_ play as staking an
     _ecu_, or half a guinea, on the turn up of a card, and they beg
     leave to observe, that it is not considered as a mark of their
     good breeding, to engross the whole round of the Faro table,
     which might be turned to so much better advantage, by the
     pluckings of a few rich young Lords, and Commoners, who would
     wish to sport their _rouleaus_. It is hoped this hint may be
     attended to, as it may prevent further observation."--(_Times,
     April 3, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is impossible to conceive a more complete system of fraud and
     dishonour than is practised every night at the _Faro Banks_.
     Though every table has four croupiers, yet the Bank holders find,
     that double the number are necessary to watch all the little
     tricks, and artifices, of some of the _fashionable punters_. But
     Mrs. G---- beats all her associates in the art of _doubling, or
     cocking a card_."--(_Times, April 4, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Faro Banks being no longer a profitable game, certain Ladies
     in St. James' Square have substituted another instead of it,
     called _Roulet_: but it is in fact only the old game of E.O.
     under a different title. _Roulet_ is now therefore the _order of
     the night_."--(_Times, June 25, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The late King was passionately fond of Masquerades, where there
     was always a Pharo Bank prepared for his entertainment. Upon one
     occasion the crowd was so great in all parts of the Theatre, that
     the late Mr. Crawford was called for, and ordered to stop the
     further admission of company at the door: in which, however, he
     found so much difficulty, that 2700 guineas were forced into his
     pocket, whilst he stood purposely to advertise the public that
     there was no more room."--(_Times, April 13, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The two gambling houses in St. James's Square are in despair.
     The suppers are ordered with great caution: and of things that
     will _keep_. The two last companies have been composed,
     literally, of the _privileged wives_, and of
     foreigners."--(_Times, Dec. 2, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is to the credit of the rising generation of females, that
     they have unanimously quitted those infamous meetings, called
     Private Pharoes, where some of their shameless Mammas, and the
     faded reputations of the present age, still expose their vices,
     and cheat the boys who have not been long enough in the army, to
     wear out their first cockades."--(_Times, Dec. 30, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "To the CONDUCTOR of the TIMES.

     "Sir,--London is certainly an eligible place for persons who have
     nothing but their labour to depend on, to get forward in life,
     provided they steer clear of the many snares, and temptations,
     which hover in every alley, street, winding, and corner.

     "The mischief is, however, that the generality of young men, the
     moment they set foot in town, or, if brought up in the
     Metropolis, directly they enter the world on their own account,
     are hurried away, thoughtlessly, with the stream of error, and
     dissipation. If he happens to be a young man possessed of a
     moderate independence, without the suggestion of prudence, the
     caution of experience, the councils of wisdom or the restraint of
     authority, his whole conduct is then influenced by the passion
     with which he is actuated, which becomes at once, whether good or
     bad, his impulse, and his guide.

     "The Play-house is the first place of resort, which from the
     frequency of his visits, instead of being an instructive
     amusement, or a moral lesson, turns out a rendezvous of intrigue,
     and intemperance, where he soon acquires an intimacy with the
     idle, the profligate, the gambler, and the prostitute, who eye
     him as their lawful prey, and with all that ease, dexterity, and
     artifice, which a knowledge of the town, and its vicissitudes,
     has furnished them with, they imperceptibly lead him from one
     crime to another, till at length he becomes extravagant, and
     irregular, callous, and abandoned. Bagnios, gaming-tables,
     horses, and black-legs, are now his only wish, theme, and
     delight, and, so long as his pocket will endure the burden, so
     long, and no longer, is he duped, flattered, caressed, and
     encouraged, by those who surround him. But everything must have
     an end, and enormous expenditures cannot keep pace with that
     income which should be managed with care and frugality. The young
     Gentleman _runs short_, as it is termed, and, on his first
     embarrassment, is advised to apply for the assistance of some
     _friendly advertising money lender_, who, upon proper security,
     has the _modesty_ to procure him from time to time, sums of
     money, at the _equitable premium of 100 per cent_. A repetition
     so involves him, that, by degrees, his estate falls into the
     hands of Mr. Usurer, who takes an _absolute assignment of his
     estate_, for a consideration less than half its true value: and
     reflection never once enters his head, but he unfortunately
     squanders the last shilling: but it is, now, he conceives, a
     folly to repent, or retreat: consequently he gets into debt, is
     arrested, carried to a spunging house, and from thence is removed
     to the King's Bench, or Fleet Prison.

     "Far be it from me to throw any odium on an unfortunate class of
     people immured in the walls of either of those places, there are
     no doubt, imprisoned, as worthy, and as good a set of people, as
     any in society. But the young spark I am speaking of, being
     mortified at his late companions standing aloof, and resigning
     him to his fate, becomes loaded with obloquy, associates with
     characters equally as vicious as himself, smoaks, swears, and
     carouses, and, all at once, is wholly lost, as it were to
     himself, and to the world.

                                                  "R. K--y."

     --(_Times, Dec. 31, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Capt. H. of the Guards, the nephew of the Banker, who a short
     time since lost 13,000 guineas at one sitting, at Backgammon, to
     an Irish Gambler, revenged himself last week for this loss, by
     winning the enormous sum of _45,000 Guineas_, at Billiards, in
     one night, of Mr. B. S. of the Guards. It is said that £25,000 of
     the money was paid him the next day."--(_Times, March 16, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is said to be the intention of some of the leading circles in
     the Fashionable World, to abolish the tax of _Card-money_,[4] as
     an imposition upon hospitality. This would prove the return of
     good sense, inasmuch as it tends to substantiate the truth--that
     when one person invites another to partake of the conviviality of
     his house, he should not lay an impost upon him, even more
     exorbitant than that which he would pay, were he to attend a
     Tavern Club. When a friend is invited, it is an insult to
     friendship to make that friend pay for his
     entertainment."--(_Times, Dec. 17, 1794._)

          [Footnote 4: The guests paid a small sum each, for every new
          Pack of Cards used, which it was supposed the servants
          took.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The _tabbies_ at Bath are in a state of insurrection, in
     consequence of an example set by Lady Elcho, who neither visits,
     nor receives, company that _pay for_ Cards: the laudable
     reformation is adopted so generally, that many of the _Dowagers_,
     who have so long fed upon _Card-money_, are turning their
     thoughts to some more creditable means of earning their
     livelihood."--(_Times, March 22, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We hope the Ladies in London, who stand upon a nice point of
     honour, will follow the example of the Bath Ladies, and exclude
     the odious, and pitiful, custom of taking card-money at their
     houses. It is a meanness, which no persons who pretend to the
     honour of keeping good company, ought to allow. We are afraid
     that many a party is formed, rather to derive benefit from the
     Card tables, than for the sake of hospitality."--(_Times, March
     24, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We hope, now that the business of informations against the
     Gambling Houses has found its way into the Court of King's Bench,
     that we shall hear of some effectual measures being taken to
     suppress them. What other than the most unworthy considerations
     could have suffered these houses to be open night after night, in
     defiance of every law, and to the destruction of young women,
     whose parents are so profligate, as to take them thither. If
     certain Mammas have no regard for their reputation, surely they
     should consider that their daughters are yet to be provided for.

     "We state it as a fact, within our own knowledge, that two Ladies
     of Fashion who keep open houses for Gaming, at the West End of
     the Town, have lately paid large _douceurs_, to ward off the hand
     of justice."--(_Times, Apr. 23, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Gambling-houses in and about Oxenden St., live in a stile of
     unprecedented luxury, and dissipation. It was stated some time
     ago, in the Court of King's Bench, that their dinners amounted to
     £150,000 per annum."--(_Times, May 27, 1796._)

[Illustration: A kick-up at a Hazard Table. (No.1)--1790.]

[Illustration: A kick-up at a Hazard Table. (No.2)--1790.]

[Illustration: Modern Hospitality]

[Illustration: Dividing the Spoil, St. James's.--1796.]

These two illustrations are almost Hogarthian in their contrast, and
preach a homily, better than pages of text would do, on the similarity
of plunder. St. James, with Lady Archer and Lady Buckinghamshire
quarrelling over gold, bank notes, a sword, and an Order. One other
lady, probably Lady Mount Edgcumbe, scrutinising a bill--whilst the
fourth, with a pile of gold, and notes, before her, looks calmly on.
The artist (who, unfortunately, is anonymous,) shows what very little
difference there is between that, and the woman of St. Giles--who, to
the accompaniment of Gin, are dividing _their_ spoil, a pipe, a foot
rule, a razor, &c.--little things reft from working men--on a very
common deal table.

It was about this time that special attention was called to this
gaming mania, and Gillray (?) on the 16th May, 1796, published a
Caricature called "Faro's Daughters, or the Kenyonian blow up to
gamblers." Here we see the Lady Archer, and Mrs. Concannon, placed
together in the pillory, and mutually upbraiding each other.

The _motif_ for this picture was a speech of Lord Kenyon's, who, at a
trial to recover £15, won at gaming, on Sunday, at a public
house--commented very severely on the hold, the vice of gaming had, on
all classes of society, from the highest, to the lowest. The former,
he said, set the example to the latter--and, he added, "They think
they are too great for the law; I wish they could be punished,"--and
then continued, "If any prosecutions of this kind are fairly brought
before me, and the parties are justly convicted, whatever be their
rank, or station, in the country--though they be the first ladies in
the land--they shall certainly exhibit themselves in the pillory."

     "A new stratagem has been hit on to gain early intelligence of
     the drawings of the ensuing Irish Lottery. As _Pigeons_ are found
     sometimes not to fly quick enough, some of our speculating
     Lottery Rooks have been for some time past trying experiments on
     high eminences in North Wales, by exhibiting rockets about seven
     o'clock in the evening. It is to be seen whether this mode of
     communication can be rendered sufficiently intelligible, to
     answer the purposes of fraud."--(_Times, Nov. 4, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is said, and we hope with truth, that the Archbishop of
     Canterbury, at the head, and with the concurrence of the
     Episcopal Lords, means to introduce a Bill into Parliament to
     prevent _gambling on a Sunday_. An act at present does exist
     against this pernicious practice; but the penalty amounts to a
     fine, that the Groom-porters at Hazard, or the Dealer at Faro,
     can with ease pay by the _profits of an hour_. The punishment for
     the offence of playing any game of chance on a Sunday is, by this
     new intended Bill, to be _transportation for seven years to
     Botany Bay_. The owner of the house, by a particular clause, is
     more severely dealt with. _He_, or _she_, permitting such
     gambling, shall be transported for life."--(_Times, Feb. 13,
     1797._)

     "PUBLIC OFFICE, MARLBOROUGH St. FARO BANKS. On Saturday came on
     to be heard, informations against Lady Buckinghamshire, Lady
     Elizabeth Luttrell, Mrs. Sturt, and Mr. Concannon, for having,
     on the night of the 30th of last January, played at _Faro_, at
     Lady Buckinghamshire's house, in St. James's Square, and Mr.
     Martindale was charged with being the proprietor of the table.

     "The evidence went to prove that the Defendants had gaming
     parties at their different houses by rotation, and that when they
     met at Lady B.'s, the witnesses used to wait upon them in the
     gambling room, and that they played at _E.O._, _Rouge et Noir_,
     &c., from about eleven, or twelve, till three, or four, o'clock
     in the morning. After hearing Counsel, the Magistrates convicted
     _Hy. Martindale_ in the penalty of £200, and _each of the Ladies_
     in £50. The Information against Mr. _Concannon_ was quashed, on
     account of his being summoned by a wrong Christian
     name."--(_Times, Mar. 13, 1797._)

[Illustration: Dividing the Spoil, St. Giles's.--1796.]

The Magistrates were not quite so severe as Lord Kenyon had promised
to be, should he ever get any of these ladies into his clutches:
perhaps they had heard of the recent loss of Lady Buckinghamshire's,
when in Feb{y}. her Faro Bank was stolen, or, at least, _she said it
had been_. Gillray caricatured it very cleverly--as also he did in the
accompanying illustration, "Discipline à la Kenyon"--in which the Lord
Chief Justice, is administering a sound flogging to Lady
Buckinghamshire, whilst Lady Archer, and Mrs. Concannon, stand in the
pillory, guarded by a stalwart constable.

     "The expence of entertainments at a Gaming House of the highest
     class, in St. James' Square, during the eight months of last
     season, has been said to exceed _6000 Guineas_! what must be the
     profits to afford such a profusion?"--(_Times, March 21, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Pharo _Trade_ is likely to experience a more severe check
     from the recent refusal of some fashionable Gamesters to
     liquidate their debts, than from the accumulated terrors of
     _Police_ persecution. If the punters won't _pay_, the dealers may
     as well _shut up_ shop."--(_Times, Sept. 23, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "If a man should happen, in a Cockpit, to make a bet which he is
     not able to answer, he is put into a basket, and pulled up to the
     ceiling, where he remains suspended during the sport. It is
     recommended to the Pharo Bankers to institute some such
     punishment for the Lady 'Levanters.'"--(_Times, Sept. 23, 1997._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "To such a height has the spirit of gambling arisen, that at some
     of the great Tables it is not uncommon to see the stake consist
     wholly of property _in kind_. A house of furniture was last week
     lost to a Lady in the neighbourhood of Pall Mall.

     "The successful party had played against it, the stock of a farm
     in the County of Essex."--(_Times, Sept. 25, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At some of our first Boarding Schools, the fair pupils are now
     taught to play whist, and cassino. Amongst their _winning_ ways,
     this may not be the least agreeable to Papa and Mamma.

     "It is calculated, that a clever child, by its cards, and its
     novels, may pay for its own education."--(_Times, Nov. 2, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At a boarding-school in the neighbourhood of Moorfields, the
     mistress complains that she is unable to teach her scholars
     either Whist, or Pharo. However, she says, they play perfectly
     well at _Kissino_, and all-fours."--(_Times, Nov. 2, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "So completely has gambling got the better of dancing, that at a
     private Ball, last week, a Gentleman asking a young Lady, from
     Bath, to dance the two next dances, she very ingenuously
     replied,'Yes, if you will play two rubbers at
     Cassino.'"--(_Times, Dec. 22, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Gaming, that hydra of calamities, has again made its appearance
     with its black catalogue of horrors. Notwithstanding the late
     interference of the Police, there are at present, exclusive of
     subscription tables, no less than 18 public gambling houses, at
     the West End of the Town. The golden table in Leicester Square
     takes the lead in guilty pre-eminence. The _gaming crimps_ are
     already very numerous. They dress well, frequent the most
     fashionable taverns, and coffee houses, and, having succeeded in
     insinuating themselves into company, take an opportunity of
     introducing a card, or bill of fare, of their respective
     establishments."--(_Times, Sept. 13, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Last week 1272 packs of cards, _unstamped_, pretended to be made
     for exportation, but really intended for home consumption, were
     burned in the High Street of Shoreham, by order of the
     Commissioners."--(_Times, Dec. 6, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In every part of the Metropolis, that most destructive game of
     E. O.[5] is now in high practice, but more particularly so in the
     neighbourhood of S. James's Street, Pall Mall, and what is called
     the fashionable end of the town. The Tables, even if they were
     fairly constructed, must be the ruin of all adventurers; because,
     in the course of one hour, they play at a game where the Table
     has clearly _one hundred and twenty-four_ chances to _one_ in its
     favor within that hour. If this does not rouse the Magistracy,
     Justice may then be announced to be in a somniferous
     state--occasioned probably, by a yellow mineral
     application."--(_Times, June 22, 1795._)

          [Footnote 5: "A thousand witnesses might be produced to
          prove, that at every Ridolio, part of the company is seated
          at a round table, which has a hollow, moveable, circle in
          the middle, with a declivity from the centre, and its
          circumference divided into little separate cavities, or
          cells, distinguished by the letters E, and O, placed over
          them alternately: the hollow circle is put in motion, and a
          small ivory ball thrown upon it in a contrary direction;
          after several turns, the inclination of the surface carries
          the ball down towards the cavities prepared for its
          reception, in one of which, having rebounded several times,
          it at last rests, and the parties concerned in this
          interesting event, succeed, or fail, as they chance to have
          chosen, or not, the letter under which the ball happens to
          lie."--"The World," No. 180, 10th June, 1756.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is impossible that the Magistrates can be ignorant of the
     number of E. O. Tables, now held at the West end of the town. At
     one of these, established close to King's Place, a young man
     lost, on Sunday, £1500."--(_Times, June 20, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "PRIVATE LOTTERIES.

     "Amongst the various species of Gaming that have ever been
     practised, we think none exceeds the mischiefs, and calamities,
     that arise from the practice of private Lotteries, which at
     present are carrying on, in various parts of the town, to very
     alarming extents, much to the discredit of those whose province
     it is to suppress such nefarious practices, as they cannot be
     ignorant of such transactions. 'The little go,' which is the
     technical term for a private Lottery, is calculated only for the
     meridian of those understandings, who are unused to calculate,
     and discriminate, between right, and wrong, and roguery, and
     fair-dealing; and, in this particular case, it is those who
     compose the lower order of society, whom it so seriously affects,
     and on whom it is chiefly designed to operate. No man of common
     sense can suppose that the Lottery Wheels are fair, and honest,
     or that the proprietors act upon principles anything like honor,
     or honesty; for, by the art, and contrivance, of the Wheels, they
     are so constructed, with secret springs, and the application of
     gum, glue, &c., in the internal part of them, that they can draw
     the numbers out, or keep them in, at pleasure, just as it suits
     their purposes; so that the insurer, robbed, and cajoled, by such
     unfair means, has not the most distant chance of ever winning:
     the whole being a gross fraud, and imposition, in the extreme. We
     understand the most notorious of these standards of imposition
     are situated in Carnaby Market, Oxford Road, in the Borough,
     Islington, Clerkenwell, and various other places, most of which
     are under the very nose of Magistracy, in seeming security,
     bidding defiance to law, and preying upon the vitals of the poor
     and ignorant.

     "We hope the Magistrates of each jurisdiction, and those who
     possess the same power, will perform their duty on behalf of the
     poor, over whom they preside, and put a stop to such a growing,
     and alarming, evil, of such pernicious, and dangerous tendency:
     particularly, as the Proprietors are well-known bad characters,
     consisting of needy beggars, desperate swindlers, gamblers,
     sharpers, notorious thieves, and common convicted felons, most of
     whose names stand recorded in the Newgate Calendar for various
     offences of different descriptions."--(_Times, July 22, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The term of _little goes_ for the private lotteries is apt
     enough, for the poor devils who risk their property there, have
     but little, and that little goes to nought.

     "If the wheels of fortune, and the cash, seized at the private
     lotteries, become the property of the police runners, the old
     adage will be strongly verified, 'What is got over the devil's
     back, will be spent under his belly.'"--(_Times, Aug. 13,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Friday night last, in consequence of searching warrants from
     the Parochial Magistrates of St. James's, Westminster, upwards of
     30 persons were apprehended at the house of one M'Call, No. 2,
     Francis St., near Golden Square, and in the house of J. Knight,
     King St., where the most destructive practices _to the poor_ were
     carrying on, that of _Private Lotteries_ (called Little Goes.)
     Two wheels, with the tickets, were seized on the premises. Upon
     examination of those persons, who proved to be the poor deluded
     objects that had been there plundered, they were reprimanded, and
     discharged.

     "The wives of many industrious mechanics, by attending these
     nefarious houses, have not only been duped out of their earnings
     (which ought to have been applied to the providing bread for
     their families) but have even pawned their beds, wedding rings,
     and almost every article they were possessed of for that
     purpose."--(_Times, Aug. 11, 1795._)

[Illustration: Faro's Daughters.]

But nothing was said against the big State Lotteries--which were going
on without let, or hindrance--and, absolutely, educating the people in
the taste for gambling. Here are two anecdotes of the lottery:--

     "Dr. B., a physician at _Lime_ (Dorset), a few days since, being
     under pecuniary embarrassment, and his house surrounded by
     bailiffs, made his escape by a window, into a neighbour's house,
     from whence he fled to London. The furniture was seized, and the
     sale actually commenced, when it was stopped by a letter, stating
     that the Doctor, upon his arrival in London, found himself the
     proprietor of the £20,000 prize. We guarantee the truth of this
     fact."--(_Times, Dec. 27, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The £20,000 prize, drawn on Friday, is divided amongst a number
     of poor persons: a female servant in Brook St., Holborn, had a
     sixteenth; a woman who keeps a fruit-stall in Grays-Inn-lane
     another; a third is possessed by a servant of the Duke of
     Roxburghe's; a fourth by a Chelsea Carrier of vegetables to
     Covent Garden; one eighth belongs to a poor family in
     Rutlandshire, and the remainder is similarly divided."--(_Times,
     Mar. 19, 1798._)

Of Horse Racing we do not hear much--the prizes were small--and
gambling on the Turf was not reduced to a Science as it is now-a-days.
Even when attending races, the chief losses were at the gaming tables
which accompanied them.

     "Poor _Newmarket_ is completely done up! The Spring Meeting
     boasts so few bets in the calendar of gambling, that the chance
     will not pay post-chaise hire to the black legs. Thus falls the
     destructive sport of the Turf--and, as that is the case, it would
     do honour to his Majesty to change the _King's Plates_ into
     rewards for the _improvement of Agriculture_."--(_Times, April
     17, 1794._)

     "The Duke of Queensberry was a principal loser at Epsom Races.
     The Noble Duke had his _vis-a-vis_, and six horses, driving about
     the course, with two very pretty _emigrées_ in it. The Duke was
     in his cabriolet. The Duke of Bedford, Lords Egremont, and Derby,
     were also on the course. Several carriages were broken to pieces:
     and one Lady had her arm broken.

     "There was much private business done in the _swindling way_ at
     the last Epsom races. One black legged fellow cleared near a
     thousand pounds by the old trick of an E.O. Table. Another had a
     _faro table_, and was on the eve of _doing business_, when he was
     detected with a _palmed_ card: almost the whole of what may be
     justly styled 'vagabond gamblers' of London were present.

     "Mr. Bowes, half brother to the Earl of Strathmore, was robbed
     of a gold watch, and a purse, containing 30 guineas, at Epsom
     races, on Thursday last. Many other persons shared a similar
     fate, both on the same evening, and Friday. Upwards of 30
     carriages were robbed coming from the races."--(_Times, May 25,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Never since _racing_ was patronised by the _Merry Monarch_, has
     the _Turf_ been so much on the decline as at this period. His
     Grace of Bedford is the only person who retains a considerable
     stud. Lord Grosvenor has disposed of nearly the whole of his,
     with the reserve of two, or three, capital horses, and some few
     brood mares."--(_Times, Sept. 8, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A _Mr. Marston_, of the Borough, has laid a bet of 2000 guineas,
     that he will, in the course of the ensuing week, go into one of
     the great wheels of the water-works at London Bridge, while it is
     in its swiftest motion with an ebb-tide, stay there five minutes,
     and come out again with safety, though not without accident, in a
     different part from that in which he went in: and afterwards walk
     one mile within an hour, on condition that the lower bucket of
     the wheel is two feet distance from the river bottom."--(_Times,
     Sept. 11, 1797._)

[Illustration: Discipline à la Kenyon.--1797.]

These water-wheels which were situated where Fishmongers Hall now
stands, were commenced in 1582, by a Dutchman, named Peter Moritz, or
Morrice, with one wheel. _Hatton_, in his "New View of London,"
published in Queen Anne's time, says, "besides the old work erected by
Mr. _Morris_, the New, placed in the 4th Arch of the Bridge, consists
of 2 Wheels with 7 Engines, set up about the year 1702, so that there
are in all 13 engines. They are the contrivance of that great English
Engineer Mr. _Sorocold_, whereby the _Thames_ Water is raised from the
N. end of the Bridge, to a very great altitude, by which means, many
parts of the City, &c., are served with the Thames Water."




THE THEATRE.


Our forefathers were fond of the Theatre, and patronised it nightly.
They were exacting as to the quality of the acting represented before
them, and that very _exigeance_ procured them what they wanted.

In the years of which I treat, there were, in London, the following
Theatres:--The King's (now Her Majesty's) in the Haymarket--Drury
Lane--Covent Garden--The Theatre Royal, Haymarket--Royalty Theatre,
Wells Street, Goodman's Fields--Royal Circus, St. George's
Fields--Sadler's Wells--The Royal Grove, and Amphitheatre (Astley's)
Westminster Bridge--afterwards Astley's Royal Saloon--and still later
called, Astley's Amphitheatre of Arts. Whilst at the Lyceum in the
Strand, there were Musical Entertainments, and a New Circus.

It was an age of good actors, and, taking them haphazard, we have only
to glance at the following names, to prove the assertion, were it
needed. _Suett_, who drank himself to death in 1805. _John Kemble_,
the best tragic actor since Garrick. From an education for the
priesthood, to performing with a strolling company, was a great
leap--but his success was assured when, in 1783, he made his début, at
Drury Lane, as Hamlet. He retired from the stage in 1817, and died in
1823. _Baddeley_ was not a first rate actor, and I but mention him
because of his bequest of Cake, and Wine, to be partaken of, annually,
by the Company, in the Green room of Drury Lane, every Twelfth night.
_Quick_ was irresistibly comic--and none could see him act without
laughing. He lived to a good old age (acting up to 1813), above
83--dying in the year 1831.

_Edmund Kean_ was born in 1787, and went on the stage as soon as he
could walk.--After his education at Eton, he went on the provincial
boards--not playing in London, until 1814, when he played Shylock, at
Drury Lane. Died 1833. _Macklin_, "the Jew, that Shakespeare drew,"
acted until he was 90--appearing, for the last time, on the occasion
of his benefit, May 7, 1789. After he was dressed for Shylock, he went
into the Green Room, and, seeing Mrs. Pope there, said "My dear, are
you to play to-night?" "To be sure I am, Sir," she replied, "do you
not see I am dressed for Portia?"--"Ah! very true; I had
forgotten--but who is to play Shylock!" They got his poor old feeble
mind, at last, to grasp the situation, and he went on the stage--but,
after two, or three, speeches, he was obliged to give it up, and had
to ask the indulgence of the audience, and beg of them to accept Mr.
Ryder, as his substitute. He lived some years afterwards, till 11th
July 1797--when he died, at the age of 98.

_Bannister_ began his theatrical career at the early age of 12. At
his engagement at Drury Lane, in 1779, he played tragedy, but, after
the death of Edwin, he supplied his place, and played Comedy. He died
8th Nov. 1836, aged 76. _Incledon_ was the sweetest singer of his
time, and made his debut at Covent Garden in 1790--Died 1826.
_Elliston_ first appeared in London, at the Haymarket in 1796.
Although he was not a famous actor, he cannot be omitted from a list
of theatrical celebrities. Then, too, among the lesser stars, were
_Barrymore_, _Ryder_, _Johnstone_, _Pope_, _Holman_ and _Munden_--not
even forgetting _Delpini_ the famous Clown, and Scaramouch.

[Illustration: The Theatre.]

Among the chief actresses, was _Mrs. Jordan_, whose real name was
Dorothy Bland, who became a decided favourite, with a London audience,
at her first appearance at Drury Lane, in 1785. Her connection with
the Duke of Clarence, afterwards William 4th, is well known. They
lived very happily together, and had ten Children, but the connection
was broken off in 1811--and she was left to shift for herself. She
died in 1816.

The name of _Sarah Siddons_ is too well known to elicit any remark; as
a tragedian, her equal has, probably, never been seen on an English
Stage. She had a long career--from her _début_, at Drury Lane, in
1775, till her last appearance, in London, in 1816. Died 1831--aged
76.

_Miss Farren_, was a most lady-like, and elegant actress. She was tall
and slim, and was caricatured as being positively scraggy--but she
captivated the then Lord Derby, who, in physique was her complete
antithesis, having short legs, a very corpulent body, and a
hydrocephalous head. She retired from the stage before her marriage,
in 1796.

_Mrs. Crouch_, and _Mrs. Billington_, the rival songstresses, were
actresses, but they generally had parts assigned them, in which they
could exercise their vocal powers, and they sang at Oratorios, and
Concerts. Mrs. Billington did not retire from her profession until
1800. She died in 1817.

_Mrs. Frances Abington_ first appeared before a London audience on
21st Aug. 1755, and played, with few intermissions, until 1798. After
Mrs. Clive, she was the best comic actress on the English stage, and
could equally play Lady Teazle, Lady Betty Modish, a Chambermaid, a
Romp, or a Country girl--Died, 1815.

_Mrs. Bellamy_, can just claim a notice, because she died in 1788, but
she left the stage in 1785. She was a tragic actress, and was reckoned
equal to _Mrs. Cibber_.

Chief among the next rank of actresses, we must place _Miss Brunton_,
_Mrs. Martyr_, and _Mrs. Pope_.

Thinking it would interest my readers, I have taken some portraits of
the chief Actors, and Actresses, of the time, from a very rare book,
and they are interesting to the present generation, as shewing the
Costumes in which the plays were acted, and, which, I suppose,
satisfied the æsthetic, and archæological, taste of our grandfathers.

Both audience, and press, were very outspoken in their criticisms,
and, indeed, in those days, dramatic criticism was real, and had not
been reduced to a fine art, as now. Take the following instance:--

     "Theatre, Covent Garden. Hoadley's agreeable Comedy of _The
     Suspicious Husband_, was, last night, in general, presented here
     with spirit, and attended by a considerable audience. The
     Character of most prominent merit, as to performance, was
     _Strickland_, which Farren supported with strong emotion, and
     probable impression. Mrs. Abington would have represented
     _Clarinda_ with more effect, if she had not directed all her
     share of the dialogue entirely to the audience. Pope was the
     _Frankly_, but he must take great pains before he will acquire
     the ease necessary for genteel Comedy. Lewis's _Ranger_ was not
     sufficiently marked by the appearance of that airy dissipation
     which the part demands. Mrs. Wells' _Jacintha_ was only
     distinguished for rustic dialect, and awkward deportment. Mrs.
     Bernard had the merit of being decent in _Mrs.
     Strickland_."--(_The Morning Post, Jan. 3, 1788._)

The Theatre, was, then, as now, a passion with some people, and
amateur theatricals were in high favour.

[Illustration: Mr. Macklin, as Shylock. Mr. Holman, as Richard.]

     "At the Blenheim Theatre, her Grace the Duchess of Marlborough
     attended her guests in person, and superintended the refreshments
     of Sandwiches, fruit and wines, which were distributed in
     profusion."--(_Morning Post, Mar. 28, 1788._)

The Newspapers gave Theatrical Gossip--as the following, all from the
_Morning Post, Jan. 15, 1789_, shews:--

     "It has lately been a practice with one, or two, of the female
     performers at Drury Lane Theatre, to refuse appearing on the
     stage, though much after the time of commencing the play, because
     the boxes may not happen to be filled with fashionable visitors,
     regardless of any disapprobation which may arise from the
     impatience of the audience.

     "When the New Theatre is erected for the Managers of Old Drury,
     it is in contemplation to fix a Clock over the Stage, where the
     inscription is now placed, that, if the performance should be
     improperly delayed, and the audience become clamorous, the Public
     may be informed to whom the blame should be applied."

     "A whimsical incident happened the other night, at the reading of
     Cumberland's new Comedy. The Author, who read the piece himself,
     began with the _Dramatis Personæ_, thus, 'The _Impostor_, by Mr.
     Palmer:' A laugh occurring at this, the Author became embarrassed
     on seeing Mr. Palmer in the room, but, recovering himself, he
     added, 'being his _first appearance_ in that character.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Mrs. Jordan and Kemble, according to Green Room report, are not
     upon the most amicable footing. It is supposed that the lady
     takes advantages of her popularity _to be ill when she pleases_,
     and has refused to perform in a farce when Mrs. Siddons appears
     in the play, and for this _modest_ reason, 'that _she_ will not
     fill the house, and let Mrs. Siddons run away with the reputation
     of it.'"--(_Morning Post, Mar. 10, 1789._)

We come across a curious glimpse of Mrs. Robinson--the "Perdita,"
(deserted by her "Florizel,") in the _Morning Post, March 11, 1789_.

     "Perdita, the once beautiful Perdita, parades, every day, along
     Pall Mall, in her carriage, from which she frequently

      'Casts a longing ling'ring look,'

     in hopes that her charms, which, formerly, commanded the grave
     and the gay, may revive an attachment long since extinguished.
     This unhappy beauty had better try Hyde Park, if she must have a
     little morning air--such a daily excursion would be more
     serviceable to her health, than an anxious ride through Pall
     Mall, can be gratifying to her pride."

Theatrical Salaries were not very high--for, _teste_, the _Morning
Post, of March 13, 1789_:--

     "It is said that Mrs. Jordan has but Six Pounds a week. Who will
     venture to say, that, considering the present attraction of her
     talent, this is an adequate recompense?"

The _Morning Post, Oct. 27, 1798_, has the following two paragraphs as
to behaviour at the theatres:--

     "Two men in the pit at Drury Lane Theatre, last night, were so
     turbulent, and riotous, during the last act of Henry the Fifth,
     that the performance was interrupted upwards of a quarter of an
     hour. The audience, at last, asserted their power, and turned
     them disgracefully out of the Theatre. This should always be done
     to crush the race of disgusting puppies that are a constant
     nuisance at the playhouse every night."

     "A box lobby puppy having insulted a gentleman at Covent Garden
     Theatre, on Friday night, received a very suitable drubbing.
     When this necessary chastisement was completed, the _beater_
     demanded _satisfaction_. 'Have I not thrashed you to your heart's
     content?' said the gentleman. The other replied, with great
     simplicity, 'Sir, that is no _satisfaction_ to me.'"

[Illustration: Mr. Pope, as Hotspur.]

[Illustration: Mr. Johnstone as Apollo.]

Fancy our modern Royal Family, on their visits to the
Theatre--_joining heartily in the choruses_, and witnessing _slang
dances_: yet so it was in 1793.

     "The very pleasant Comedy of _Notoriety_ was, yesterday evening,
     performed before _their Majesties_, the three elder Princesses,
     and a very brilliant house. Some well-timed songs introduced into
     the pantomime of _Harlequin's Museum_, gave the audience an
     opportunity of testifying their loyalty to the King, and
     attachment to both her Majesty, and her family, who joined
     heartily in the choruses. We never saw them better entertained.
     But surely the Slang dance which is introduced might be very
     properly omitted:--it is too vulgar for so elegant, and well
     conducted, a theatre."--(_Times, Feb. 5, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The _private boxes_ at the Haymarket Theatre are so _thinly
     partitioned_, that we are surprised any person should deem them
     proper places to recapitulate _domestic bickerings_."--(_Times,
     Feb. 6, 1793._)

The following is _apropos_ of Mrs. Jordan:--

     "Performers at the Theatres are now paid more liberally than
     heretofore. We are sorry when their public conduct gives reason
     for complaint. As the frequenters of them are their support, it
     will ever be necessary, in the public, to bring them to a proper
     sense of their situation. It is only by this means the conductors
     of our entertainments can have any sway over them."--(_Times,
     Mar. 10, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Brandenburgh House Theatricals.

     "The opening of the New Theatre, belonging to the Margrave of
     Anspach's Villa, at Hammersmith, took place on Thursday evening,
     with an entertainment the most costly, and at the same time, the
     most tasty, and elegant, we ever remember to have witnessed. The
     Prince of Wales, who was present, declared he had never seen
     anything more splendid, and handsomely conducted. The Theatre is
     built at a short distance from the house, between which there is
     a communication by means of a colonnade. The outside appearance
     rather resembles an old Gothic building, than a Temple devoted to
     the Muses. The inside is prettily fitted up, but the ceiling is
     too low for the size of it.

     "The performance opened by a prelude: after which a little piece
     was represented, entitled Fanfan and Colas, the characters by the
     Margravine, young Keppel Craven, Mons. and Medame Texier, and
     Count d'Alet, _Lord High Chamberlain of the Household_. The third
     _petite piece_ was a very humorous dialogue called Le Poulet,
     between Mrs. Hobart, as an English servant maid, and Mons. Le
     Texier, as a French Valet. Both were inquisitive after news: the
     one told all the _chit chat_ of the town in her English dialect:
     the other told the great exploits going forward in France, in
     French. Mrs. Hobart played her part to admiration, and very aptly
     introduced, among other things, the story of her own public
     _Fete_, last summer, at Ham, where the torrents of rain poured
     down, in such abundance, as to turn all her fine creams into poor
     milk and water.

     "The supper, after the play, was magnificent in the extreme, and
     consisted of a profusion of all the delicacies of the season.
     Besides Soups, and every dainty meat, there were pine apples, new
     grapes, cherries, strawberries, &c.

     "After the supper, there was a Masquerade, and Ball, which was
     quite unexpected to the Company. The Margravine had provided new
     dresses for all the company, and the Ladies, and Gentlemen, each
     dressed in separate rooms. The Duke of Clarence changed his dress
     seven different times, and greatly added to the hilarity of the
     entertainment. The Prince was in a domino."--(_Times, April 27,
     1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It having been observed, in some public prints, that the Hon.
     Mrs. Twisleton was the first female of fashion who had made the
     stage her profession, it is but justice to notice, that Mrs.
     Holman (the _ci-devant_ Mrs. Hughes) who made her debut in
     Dublin, some years since, has a priority to public notice on this
     account: if real rank by _birth_, education, and fortune, give a
     title to distinction, if admission to the first orders of
     fashionable society have pretensions, the friends of that Lady
     have certainly a right to enter her claims on this
     subject."--(_Times, Feb. 13, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     OPENING OF NEW DRURY.

     "Public curiosity, which has long been on the tip-toe of
     expectation, was yesterday gratified by the opening of this
     superb edifice, under the immediate management of Mr. Kemble,
     whose approved talents well entitle him to so flattering a mark
     of distinction. Of this Theatre, language must be inadequate to
     give even a faint idea of the effect it produces on the
     spectator, at his _entré_: nor does the first impression in the
     least diminish from a more minute examination into its structure,
     and decorations: the whole forming a happy combination of the
     gay, and the grand. The Stage, fitted as it was for an Oratorio,
     presented a nouvelle, and pleasing, prospect. The representation
     of a Gothic Cathedral, with the 'Long sounding Isle,' and

       'Storied windows richly dight
        Casting a dim religious light,'

     was admirably adapted to suit with the solemnity appertaining to
     sacred selections.

     "From the opening of the doors, to the first crash of the band,
     most able in all its movements, the satisfaction and delight of
     the audience was expressed by repeated, and increasing,
     plaudits--encouraged not a little by the care, and attention,
     evinced by the Proprietors, for the convenience of the public, in
     the approaches to the House--in every respect answering to the
     magnificence, and accommodation, within. Independent of the
     attraction, long, very long, to be expected from the novelty, as
     well as beauty, of the New Drury, some credit ought to be given
     to that which must ever have its weight with the people at large,
     as well as amateurs--a numerous, and well appointed, set of vocal
     performers. The names of Harrison, Storace, Kelly, Crouch, and
     Dignum, are too proverbial for excellence in their several lines,
     to need our eulogium. Miss Leake, whose unaffected correctness of
     style, and melody of tone, must shortly place her deservedly high
     in her profession, may also be deemed almost as powerful an
     acquisition as Miss Parke, at the other House. Mr. Meredith, from
     Liverpool, possesses a fine deep volume of voice, which he
     exerted to great advantage. This Gentleman, we recollect some
     years since at Ranelagh, _and_, if we are not very much mistaken,
     at the Little Theatre, as the Prodigal Son of Dr. Arnold's
     charming Oratorio.

     "Giornovici's Concerto would have gone off much better, had the
     subject not been so tedious. This is a fault we have too often
     cause to find with Concerto Performers, who frequently give us
     too much of a good thing. His mode of introduction was
     particularly awkward--some other might be contrived than pitching
     him upon a plank, brought in at the hazard of discomfiting the
     head dresses, or breaking the noses of the ladies in the
     Orchestra.

     "The sound was rather too redundant, in general, and the language
     of the Gods, now and then, too plainly heard in the pit; but, as
     it arises merely from the freshness of the building, this
     inconvenience will gradually be amended.

     "The Prince of Wales was with Mrs. Fitzherbert, and Mr. Sheridan,
     in the box appropriated to his Royal Highness. Lord Thurlow sat,
     apparently well pleased, in the box beneath. Mr. and Mrs. Kemble,
     Mrs. Siddons, and Sir Francis Bourgeois, saw that all was well,
     in one of the orchestra boxes.

     "From the frequent _encores_, the Selection was not over till a
     late hour. The usual cry of 'take care of your pockets' on
     quitting the Theatre, was superfluous: for _Townsend_ attended to
     keep a 'wary eye;' so the pickpockets, of course, found it
     impracticable to make any 'palpable hits.'"--(_Times, March 13,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Miss Farren has left London for Dublin where she is to perform
     12 nights. The terms of her engagement, are £500, and a clear
     benefit. It is not true that she takes _Derby_ in her
     route."--(_Times, June 26, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The high demands made by some Actresses on the Management of
     Theatres, are so exorbitant, that we trust they will not be
     complied with. Mrs. Jordan, and Storace, have demanded, the
     first, £30, and the latter, £20, a night. Much as we admire the
     abilities of each on the stage, yet we know, from experience,
     that the higher the salaries of some performers are, the more
     they are prone to disrespect the public, and to give themselves
     insufferable airs."--(_Times, Oct. 4, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     _Storace_ has come down to the terms of her last engagement, and
     they are adequate to her abilities. The ci-devant Princess of
     Petersham still holds out: but it is thought that _want_ of
     _ammunition_ will occasion her soon to capitulate. When the
     theatre was opened in Goodman's fields a first rate actress
     thought herself amply paid with _forty shillings_ per week: but,
     now, a first rate actress has the conscience to demand _forty
     pounds_ Per night."--(_Times, Oct. 9, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Mrs. Jordan has at last _condescended_ to _descend_ to her
     former situation in the Theatre, at her former salary."--(_Times,
     Oct. 18, 1794._)

     "The popular Dramatist, in his rage for hunting down the follies
     of the day, we hope will not forget to be _in_ at the _death_ of
     our masculine women of fashion. Their hunting, shooting, driving,
     cricketing, faroing, and skating, present a monstrous chaos of
     absurdity, not only making day, and night, hideous, but the sex
     itself equivocal. Lady men, or men ladies, 'you'll say 'tis
     Persian, but let it be changed.'"--(_Times, Oct. 18, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Much has been said upon the Bath Fracas, but the circumstance
     has never yet been explained. It is briefly this: The Hon. Mrs.
     Twisleton was at the Ball-room, and stood up to dance: she
     stickled a little for _precedence_ as an _Honorable_: the Master
     of the Ceremonies began to object to her dancing at all, as a
     _Public Performer_. Her partner instanced a Performer, M.
     Yanievitz, who was in the constant habit of appearing there. The
     Master of the Ceremonies went up to this amiable, and
     distinguished, foreigner, and intimated that his appearance there
     was thought too frequent, by the Subscribers. Mr. Yanievitz,
     demanded who had given the Master of Ceremonies this intimation:
     a satisfaction which was refused. Next morning Mr. Yanievitz
     wrote a proper letter to the M. C. expressive of his sentiments
     upon this occasion.

     "A meeting of subscribers was called, and they resolved, that, in
     future, no Public Performer, of any description, should be
     permitted to appear in any of the Public rooms."--(_Times, March
     4, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Annual tickets, and orders are accompanied with a very great
     inconvenience: the side boxes are filled, at present, with
     butlers, and valets-de-chambre. It is not that these persons
     conduct themselves amiss, but they deter gentlemen from entering,
     whose appearance might prove distressing to them."--(_Times,
     Sept. 26, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On an information being likely to be made against many of the
     performers in both Theatres, on the Act against _profane cursing,
     and swearing_--it became a question, as the Act is a
     discriminating one, whether they swore as _gentlemen_: when it
     was decided that they should be treated according to the
     Character they personified."--(_Times, Dec. 17, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Theatres were shut on Saturday evening, to commemorate, with
     the greater solemnity, the _Martyrdom_ of King
     Charles."--(_Times, Feb. 1, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Drury Lane Theatre has not experienced a riot so wild, and
     unappeasable, as that of Tuesday evening, since the _Blackamoor
     Washed White_, of famous memory. The Entertainments advertised
     for the night's amusements were _three_. The _Smugglers_, having
     nothing contraband on board, was not only suffered to pass, but
     was hailed with three cheers:--The _Virgin Unmasked_ had her
     admirers--but the _Deserter_ was mauled most dreadfully--for
     Young Welsh had permitted a new _Skirmish_ to make his _debut_,
     as _Suett_ phrased it: and, being a miserable wretch, when the
     audience expressed a disapprobation, the Performers, to shorten
     the ridicule, shortened the scenes, which on such occasions, is
     usual, and prudent--but, the curtain dropping at ten minutes past
     ten, created a violent burst of indignation. Kelly first
     attempted to enquire the wishes of _John Bull_, and expressed
     himself, in the name of the Performers, ignorant of how he was
     disobliged. All striving to be heard, none, of course, could be
     so, and he retired. Uproar still increased, and, after near half
     an hour of this din, Suett made his appearance, and apologised
     for the badness of the stage struck hero, but he was soon given
     to understand, that that was not the cause of the _Row_, but that
     the audience expected to have the "Deserter" played _wholly_ over
     again. Mr. S., after "looking as queer as a quartern of soap
     after a week's wash," expressed his concern that many of the
     Performers were gone, and the stage lights out, but this was the
     cause of fresh howlings, and as somebody cried out, 'God save
     the King,' he promised to send as many of the Orchestra, as could
     be found. In five minutes this popular hymn was received with
     acclamation. The curtain drew up, and all the Performers in the
     Theatre sung it. The curtain again dropt amid violent tumults
     which continued, and increased. Again Mr. Suett appeared, and
     declared 'how much hurt the Proprietors were at any part of the
     Performance being omitted: that it was without their concurrence,
     or even knowledge, and that such a circumstance should never
     happen again.' This rather mollified the audience, and many
     dispersed at a quarter past 11. Almost the whole of the lights in
     the house had been long extinguished: and some of the benches
     were torn up."--(_Times, May 13, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Thursday last a ludicrous _fracas_ took place in one of the
     boxes of the first circle, at Drury Lane Theatre. A gentleman,
     finding himself much incommoded by the heat, had recourse to his
     smelling-bottle. One of the fighting lobby loungers, who stood
     close to him, took offence at the scent, and desired him to put
     it up. The demand not being obeyed, an altercation ensued, which
     ended with the customary _etiquette_ of _Boabdil's_ presenting
     his card, and desiring his antagonist's, in return. The card was
     accepted, but the only notice taken of it, was a formal offer of
     the smelling-bottle. This retort completely disconcerted the
     would-be Duellist, who found himself so unexpectedly taken by the
     _nose_, and the affair concluded with a general laugh at the
     impertinence of the offender."--(_Times, Oct. 7, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The indecent behaviour of the Box-lobby loungers, becomes, every
     day, more disorderly, and offensive. Two of this contemptible
     class, who frequent the Theatre, merely to interrupt the
     performance, and disturb the audience, quarrelled, on Tuesday
     night, at Drury-Lane house, and, regardless of every kind of
     decorum, stripped in the lobby, and decided their dispute _à la
     Mendoza_. We trust that the timely interference of peace officers
     will prevent, for the future, a conduct so degrading to society,
     and so reproachful to public manners."--(_Times, Oct. 18, 1798._)

[Illustration: Mr. Quick as Scrub.]

[Illustration: Mr. Ryder as Falstaff.]

[Illustration: Kemble, as Hamlet.]

[Illustration: Kemble, as Lear.]

[Illustration: Mrs. Bellamy, taken at the Age of 30.]

[Illustration: Mrs. Abington as Lappet.]

[Illustration: Mrs. Siddons as Andromache.]

[Illustration: Mrs. Jordan as Viola.]

Cant phrases, and catch words, have been in use on the stage for many
years, Paul Bedford's sonorous "I believe you my Bo-o-o-o-y," and
Lionel Brough's "That's the sort of man I am," being illustrations of
the fact. Something like these, tickles the fancy of the audience,
and, in very little time, the phrase is all over the town, and in
everybody's mouth.

[Illustration: Mrs. Billington, as Rosetta.]

[Illustration: Mrs. Martyr, as Euphrosyne.]

     "Knight's cant phrase of 'That accounts for it,' is pleasantly
     made use of in the new Farce at Covent Garden. Bond St. Bobbies
     have, all, their different cant phrases, indeed, they must say
     something, and have no other talents for conversation, so 'that
     accounts for it.'"--(_Times, Dec. 5, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Cant Phrases.

     "Our Dramatic Authors have lately amused themselves, and the
     Public, with cant phrases, instead of character, 'That's your
     fort'--'Keep moving'--&c. Young Dibdin, in his _Jew and Doctor_,
     seems to have hit upon the happiest cant, imaginable; 'That
     accounts for it,' which seems applicable in almost all cases.

     "There is no opposition to Government, in the House of
     Commons--for a change of Ministry would ruin the country--_that
     accounts for it_.

     "A very great Personage pays no regard to _Lovers' Vows_: he has
     been disgusted with a _German_ translation--_that accounts for
     it_.

     "Buonaparte wishes to return to Paris, though he should go
     thither as naked as the back of his hand; he prefers
     _soup-maigre_ to water melons--_that accounts for it_.

     "Women complain of the want of Gallantry in men, though the
     modern dress shows more than enough to excite passion, but--_that
     accounts for it_.

     "This cant phrase would comprehend all the science of Logic, if
     properly used, and appropriately designed. It might be amplified,
     in the present instance, to any length of space, but
     exemplification breaks off because _ne quid nimis_--_that
     accounts for it_."--(_Times, Dec. 14, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The mania of private acting, rages with more fury than ever.
     There are, at present, no less than six Private Theatres, in the
     Cities of Westminster, and London. This is a kind of amusement
     which, on the ground of _morality_, should be 'more honoured in
     the breach than the observance,' and calls for the interference
     of the Magistracy."--(_Times, Dec. 26, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "During the representation of the play of _Macbeth_, at a
     Provincial Theatre, some nights since, an incident occurred,
     which totally disconcerted all the gravity of the Tragic Muse. In
     the Banquet Scene, Banquo's murderer was, by some untoward
     accident, missing, and the business of the drama was threatened
     with suspension, when in the exigency of the moment, an ignorant
     candle-snuffer was pushed forward to tell the horrible tale:--on
     seeing him, _Macbeth_, who had been motionless with confusion,
     and embarrassment, burst from his state of torpor, and exclaimed,
     'There's blood upon thy face!' 'Is there by G--,' cried the
     astonished clown, and clapping his hands to his cheek, with a
     mixture of anger, and alarm, continued, 'Then that domn'd blunt
     razor has cutten me agen.'"--(_Times, Jan. 7, 1799._)

A notice of the Stage, of this time, would be incomplete, if Ireland's
impudent forgery of "Vortigern and Rowena," were not mentioned. It was
supposed to be an undiscovered play of Shakespeare's, and, with many
other Shakespearean forgeries, was fabricated by W. H. Ireland, who is
classed as follows:--

       "Four forgers born in one prolific age,
       Much critical acumen did engage:
       The first[6] was soon, by doughty Douglas, scar'd,
       Tho' Johnson would have screen'd him, had he dar'd.
       The next had all the cunning of a Scot;[7]
       The third, invention, genius,--may, what not?[8]
       Fraud, now exhausted, only could dispense
       To her fourth son, their threefold impudence."

          [Footnote 6: Wm. Lauder who tried to make Milton out a
          plagiarist,--but his quotations from various Latin authors
          were proved to be false.]

          [Footnote 7: James Macpherson, for his Ossian.]

          [Footnote 8: Chatterton.]

Sheridan believed in the play, and engaged with Samuel Ireland, the
father of the forger, to pay down £300, and half the profits of the
first 60 nights. It was produced at Drury Lane Theatre, on 2 Ap.
1796, Kemble, playing Vortigern. He was an unbeliever in the
authenticity of the MS., and, certainly, did not attempt to uphold it
by his acting. In fact he burst the bubble, altogether, in the fifth
Act, by emphasising, with much meaning, the words, "And when this
solemn mockery is o'er," that the audience caught at it, and, amidst a
chorus of yells, and hisses, the play was utterly condemned. W. H.
Ireland soon afterwards confessed all his forgeries.

[Illustration: Miss Brunton, as Juliet.]

[Illustration: Miss Field, as Ariel.]




OPERA AND BALLET.


If there were good Actors, in those days, there were also good
singers, traditions of whom have lasted until our time. Of course,
they were fewer than the Actors, because there was but one Opera--and
the operas, then in vogue, required but a very limited number of
artists.

Still, the names of several of the _prime donne_ are yet remembered,
and the names of Mara, Storace, and Crouch will always live in the
annals of song.

_Elizabeth Mara_, whose maiden name was Schmelling, was born at Cassel
in 1750. She commenced her musical education by playing on the violin,
but, subsequently, finding she had a good voice, she devoted herself
to its cultivation, and so far succeeded, as even to earn unqualified
approbation, and applause, from Frederick the Great--who was, as a
rule, absolutely indifferent to Music. She first came to England, in
1784, and chiefly resided here till 1802; when she retired to Moscow,
where she had property, which, however, was destroyed at the French
Invasion, and destruction of the city, in 1812, and she was reduced to
poverty. She then went to reside at Revel, where her old friends
kindly helped to support her. She came once more to London, in 1819,
and gave a Concert--but her voice was gone, and this was her last
effort. She went back to Revel, where she died, in 1833, aged 84.

[Illustration: At the Opera.]

[Illustration: At Church.]

[Illustration: The Celebrated Mademoiselle G--m--rd, or Grimhard from
Paris.]

_Anne, Selina Storacé_, was born in England, and was sister of the
celebrated Composer. She was an excellent actress, a beautiful singer,
and was universally popular. She died in 1814.

Of _Mrs. Crouch_, née Phillips, I have already written, slightly, as
an Actress. She was born in 1763, and went early on the stage, making
her début, at Drury Lane, in the play of "The Lord of the Manor," in
1780, so that she was but 17. In 1784, she went to Ireland, where her
admirers were numerous, and some most passionate. One young man, whose
affection she did not return, declared he would shoot both her, and
himself--and went to the theatre, ostensibly to carry out his threat,
but he was ejected from the building, and, ultimately, left the
country.

But there was, about this time, a very romantic episode in her life.
She was loved by a young man, heir to a title, and fortune, and she
returned his love. Naturally, under the circumstances, his family had
higher matrimonial aims for him, so the young people had no other
course open to them, than a clandestine Marriage. They were even
before the Altar, of a Roman Catholic Chapel, but the priest refused
to marry them, on hearing the name of the bridegroom, unless he had
his father's consent. No priest could be found to marry them, for the
lover was under age, so the love lorn couple eloped, hoping, at some
seaside port to find a ship for Scotland. They were followed by both
irate fathers, Mr. Phillips having informed the other. The lovers were
separated, but history is silent as to whether they ever met again.

After she got over this disappointment, which took some time, she
married Lieutenant Crouch of the Navy,--good looking, but dissipated,
and spendthrift.--Of course the marriage was not a happy one, and they
parted:

Her voice was exquisitely sweet, and she was a most graceful actress.
She kept her hold on the public, and was on the stage until a short
time before her death, in 1805.

The names of Incledon, and Braham, have only to be mentioned, to
recall their vocal triumphs.

_Benjamin Charles Incledon_, was the son of a surgeon--and was born at
St. Keveran, in Cornwall, in 1764. He made his first appearance, in
London, in 1790--when he played in "The poor Soldier." He, at once,
became a public favourite, and so continued until his retirement from
the stage, which was some time before his death, in 1826. His acting
was clumsy, and ungraceful, but his sweet voice rendered him
unequalled in ballad singing, which was his especial forte.

_John Braham_, (or more correctly _Abraham_,) was born of Jewish
parents, in London, A.D. 1774. Early left an orphan, he was brought up
by Leoni, a celebrated Italian Singer, and so well taught by him, was
he, that he came out, as a public vocalist, before he was eleven years
old, when he sang _bravura_ songs, which had been written for Madame
Mara. After singing, both in English, and Italian, Opera, he went to
Italy--and, after his return, he appeared at Covent Garden, in 1801.
He died in 1856.

_Michael Kelly_ was both composer, and singer, but he cannot take rank
with either Incledon, or Braham. He made his first appearance on the
stage of the Metropolis, at Drury Lane, in 1787. He composed elegant,
and pretty, airs, and he sang nicely, but many of his compositions are
said to have had their origin in Italian, and German, sources. This
gave rise to a _bon mot_ of Sheridan's, when he heard that Kelly had
turned wine merchant--he suggested that, over his door, should be
painted, "Michael Kelly, composer of wine, and importer of music."
Died 1826.

[Illustration: Ballet at the King's Theatre,--Pantheon,--1791.]

Far more eminent than he, as composers, were _Arnold_, _Shield_,
_Storacé_, _Linley_, and _Jackson_.

_Samuel Arnold_, Mus. Doc., was born in 1740--and had the advantage of
studying music under Nares. He was, during his lifetime, both organist
to the King, and to Westminster Abbey, wrote several Oratorios, and
published selections of sacred music--but it is as a composer for the
theatre, that we have to consider him. When only twenty-three years of
age, he was appointed composer to Covent Garden Theatre, and his
earliest operas were there produced. In 1776, he filled the same
position with regard to the Haymarket, and this versatile genius
composed Operas, and Oratorios, until his death in 1802.

_William Shield_ (born in 1754) carved his own way up to the eminence,
which he enjoyed, in his profession. Apprenticed to a boatbuilder, he
gave up that business, as soon as he was out of his time: and, being
musical, and, playing well on the violin, he soon obtained a situation
at Scarborough, as leader of Concerts there, and gained such a
reputation, that he was offered, and accepted, the position of first
Viola, at the Italian Opera House. His first theatrical work was
composing the Music, (in 1778), to "The Flitch of Bacon." He wrote the
music for many other plays--and, on the death of Sir W. Parsons, he
gained the appointment of "Master of his Majesty's Musicians in
ordinary." He died in 1829.

In spite of his foreign name, Stephen Storacé, was born in England,
although of Italian parentage. He was early sent to Italy, and studied
at the Conservatorio of St. Onophris, at Naples, in 1787, being then
24 years of age. He returned to England, and, soon afterwards, was
appointed Composer to Drury Lane; and, up to his death, in 1796, he
was actively engaged on Operas, &c.

_Thomas Linley_ received his musical education from Chilcott, the
organist at Bath. One of his daughters, Eliza, married Sheridan, and,
soon after the production of his first theatrical essay, "The Duenna,"
he became joint patentee, with his son-in-law, in Drury Lane Theatre,
and, leaving Bath, went to reside in London. There, he wrote for the
Stage, and composed many operas, besides songs, madrigals, &c. He
received a severe shock, when his son was drowned, in 1778--and,
although he lived till 1795, he never recovered from it.

William Jackson (whose _Te Deum_ is, or was, such a favourite), was
born, at Exeter, in 1730, and was afterwards Organist to the Cathedral
of that city. He did not write much for the Stage, preferring sacred
music, songs, and canzonets.

The following paragraph shows a curious state of things at the
Opera:--

     "When the Gallery at the Opera House, on Saturday night,
     expressed its disapprobation of the crowded stage, _Sir John
     Gallini_!!![9] who was part of that crowd, _very modestly_
     declared, that, unless the gentlemen behind the scenes left the
     House, there would be no Opera.--But, upon being asked where the
     _half guineas_ should remain, if the gentlemen retired, this
     _shark for words_ recanted his former assertion, and, very
     composedly, swallowed the gilded pill."--(_Morning Post, Apr. 10,
     1788._)

          [Footnote 9: Sir John Gallini, was connected with the
          Theatre. It was to him that "The Monster," was sent to learn
          dancing.]

[Illustration: The Operatical Finale to the Ballet of "Alonzo e
Caro."]

The same paper (15 Ap. 1788) in its Notice "to Correspondents" rather
injures him with its forbearance. "The various articles sent to this
paper against Mr. Gallini, previous to his Benefit, we have uniformly
refused to insert, being unwilling to injure a POOR MAN, at so
important a period."

     "How we are ruined! Bruni, the new singer, has 1400 guineas, Mara
     1000, and a benefit, and Millerd, 1000 for the present Opera
     season."--(_Times, Febr. 16, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Haymarket Opera. Almost all the subscribers, in Town, graced the
     Boxes, with the Prince of Wales, and Duke of Clarence, at the
     head of the list. The Pit had some pretty, as well as well
     dressed, women; but we were sorry to observe several of the
     gentlemen in round hats, and many of them slovenly to a degree,
     descending even to boots. This ought not to be
     permitted."--(_Times, Jan. 13, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     OPERA.

     "Il Capriccio Dramatico, considerably curtailed, on Saturday,
     again introduced Signora Negri, and her reception was again most
     flatteringly favorable. The Burletta has to boast some very
     beautiful music, and the _Finale_ in particular is much indebted
     to the exertions of the performers. So far, all was peace, and
     harmony. Would we could say the same of Don Giovanni, whose
     reception was, throughout, disapproved. So determined an
     opposition to this kind of entertainment we have never witnessed:
     and, indeed, some of the occurrences were so peculiarly
     _striking_, as to baffle all description. Several blows passed in
     the pit; and one gentleman, who was remarkably forward in having
     a slap at Don Juan, got a slap in the face from an enraged
     _amateur_, who, perhaps, would have been better employed in
     _beating_ time. In short, till the fall of the curtain, Morelli's
     pretty Venetian Ballad, excepted, which gained an encore, all was
     noise and uproar; and the scene of Hell, magnificent, and
     terrific, as it was, had so far the characteristic accompanyment
     of _groans_, not of the damned, but of those troubled spirits who
     wished to torment the Manager.

     "The Procession was totally omitted, and several other judicious
     alterations made, but, as the sense of the subscribers, as well
     as the public, seems decidedly against a repetition of this
     Opera, we have no doubt but the Manager will submit,
     respectfully, to their _fiat_--comforting himself with the
     _reflection_, that his liberal exertions deserve--though it is
     not always in the power of mortals to command--success.

     "The Opposition to the new Opera of Don Giovanni, on Saturday
     night, is said to have been preconcerted: and it was known in the
     morning of that day that there was to be a riot. In one part of
     the Pit, the disturbance became so serious, that two Gentlemen
     called each other out, and agreed to meet, as yesterday morning.
     Sir W. H. was at the head of the opposition party. In justice to
     the Manager of the Opera, it should be recollected by those who
     are dissatisfied with the present company of performers, that the
     same unprecedented circumstances which prevented several Dancers
     from leaving France, also deterred several singers from coming
     from Italy, as they must pass through a part of France. This
     inconvenience is only of a temporary nature, and cannot be
     prevented. In the meantime, the subscribers, and the public, have
     the most magnificent, as well as the most commodious, theatre in
     Europe to resort to."--(_Times, Mar. 10, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_Tweedle dum_, and _Tweedle twee_--the Soprano, and Tenor, of
     the Italian Opera are objects equally important, no doubt, in the
     eye of the public. Instead of _high notes_ they have gone to
     _high words_. Signor _Tenor_, not having taken the precaution to
     soap his nose,--Signor _Soprano_ got fast hold, and gave it a
     musical shake, not perfectly in unison with the feelings of the
     tenor, who, now, if he wishes to sleep in a whole skin, will, no
     doubt, alter the _tenor_ of his conduct!!"--(_Times, Jan. 14,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Opera.--The Public are acquainted, that on Saturday
     se'nnight there was a violent disturbance at the Opera House, in
     consequence of the Subscribers shewing great dissatisfaction at
     the want of novelty in the Performances. The Manager, having
     understood that the greatest clamour came from the Boxes of the
     Countess Spencer, and Mr. Pole, Mr. Taylor (a few days since)
     sent a letter to her Ladyship, and Mr. Pole, saying, that as they
     were not satisfied with the Performances, he desired to return
     them their subscription money, which he did. The Subscribers have
     taken up this business, which they consider as a gross affront,
     and disrespect, and yesterday there was a meeting of them at the
     Thatched House Tavern, the result of which we have not learnt. We
     are sorry that there should be any misunderstanding respecting an
     Entertainment, where harmony only ought to prevail: and, we are
     equally concerned, that the Manager should, so indiscreetly, send
     such a letter to Lady Spencer, who is the last person in the
     world who would be suspected of any impropriety of behaviour,
     for, a Lady of greater accomplishments, and more unaffected
     manners, is not to be found in the whole circle of
     Nobility."[10]--(_Times, Febr. 20, 1795._)

          [Footnote 10: _Feb. 29._--A long Advertisement appeared in
          the form of an apology from Mr. Taylor to the Duke of Leeds,
          who presided at the Meeting of the Subscribers at the
          Thatched House.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The excuse for the _rows_, in a certain box, at the Opera, is,
     that the Gentlemen come in tipsy. This is an excuse, (whether
     good, or bad, we will not determine) for the Gentlemen. But, as
     we take for granted the Ladies are not tipsy, pray what excuse is
     to be offered them?"--(_Times, Dec. 26, 1796._)

[Illustration: Mdlle. Parisot.]

The Ballet does not receive so much attention in the public press, as
the Opera--and, as far as I know, there are no means of getting at the
biographies of the _premieres danseuses_.

The first of note during this period is Mdlle. _Guimard_, who was
then playing in the ballet of "Ninette." It is _just possible_ that
there may be a suspicion of caricature in the illustration.

The Ballet was a special feature at the Pantheon Theatre (the site of
which is now occupied by Messrs. W. & A. Gilbey of Oxford Street),
which was built as a counter attraction to Carlisle House, then
popularly conducted by Madame Cornelys, of whom more anon.

     "The _Pas Trois_, introduced into the Ballet at the Opera House
     on Tuesday night, for the first time, had a very pretty effect.
     It goes to the tune of 'God save the King,' and is intended as a
     compliment to his Majesty."--(_Times, Feb. 16, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Simonet, the dancer, and Grenier, who keeps the hotel in Jermyn
     Street, were, last week, ordered to depart the
     kingdom."[11]--(_Times, March 26, 1793._)

          [Footnote 11: Probably for political reasons.]

The centre figure in this illustration is M. Didelot--and the danseuse
on the left, is Miss Rose, an English-woman, who was not bewitchingly
handsome, though a good ballerina. The lady on the right is probably
Mdlle. Parisot.

     "The OPERA.--The mania of expectation was, on Saturday night, at
     the very acme of curiosity. The Pit was so crowded even before
     the drawing up of the curtain, that it was not possible to edge
     another face into the area. Stars, garters, feathers, and
     turbans, were so jumbled, and intermixed, at the doors, that all
     sex and identity were indistinguishable. The stage itself was
     crammed on all sides, and in such a manner, as to render the
     shifting of the scenery 'a work of labour, and a service of
     danger.' So eager, indeed, was the desire of seeing Didelot and
     Rose, that the wings were crowded with Ladies. Amongst those
     Ladies who thus made their _first appearance_ on the stage, we
     heard some very respectable, and titled names.

     "The new Ballet of _Les Trois Sultanes_ taken from _Marmontel
     Hillisberg_, is the '_Cock-nosed English-woman_,' yet while we
     remember _Abingdon_ and _Jordan_ in Roxalana, with all the
     roguishness of language, mere action must appear dull, and
     unentertaining. It were injustice, to be sure, to decide what
     effect the Ballet might have produced, could it have been
     fairly exhibited: but the stage was so very full, that figure
     dancers could scarce round a horse-shoe to trip in, and no
     performer could make an exit. _Didelot_ and _Rose_ appeared
     again in the Ballet, lugged in without character, merely to shew
     themselves. We hope that some Ballet will be got up wherein they
     may display the fulness of those powers, and talents, which the
     great world allow them to possess."--(_Times, Feb. 22, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Stage at the Opera is so crowded, that Madame Rose, in
     throwing up her fine muscular arm into a graceful attitude,
     inadvertently levelled three men of the first quality at a
     stroke."--(_Times, May 9, 1796._)

[Illustration: Durham Mustard too powerful for Italian Capers--1798.]


Mdlle. Parisot.

The length of Mdlle. Parisot's skirts would have delighted the Bishop
of Durham (Shute Barrington), who was much exercised in his mind, in
1798, as to the brevity of those worn by the ladies of the ballet. He
seems to have entered into a crusade against the ballet, before he
made his memorable speech in the House of Lords, on 2nd March,
1798--for the next illustration is dated January in that year.

It was, however, on the occasion of the second reading of Esten's
divorce bill, that the wrath of the Right Reverend Father in God,
fairly boiled over, and the _Times_ of 3rd March, reports him to have
spoken thus. "He considered it a consequence of the gross
immoralities, imported of late years, into this kingdom, from France;
the Directory of which country, finding that they were not able to
subdue us by their arms, appeared as if they were determined to gain
their ends by destroying our morals. They had sent over persons to
this country, who made the most indecent exhibitions on our Theatres;
exhibitions which would not have been allowed even in France; and
which, so far from being allowable in a Christian Country, would have
disgraced the ancient Theatres of Athens and Rome.

"It was his intention to move, on some future day, that an Address be
presented to his Majesty, beseeching him to order all such persons out
of the Kingdom, as people who were likely to destroy our morality, and
religion; and who were very probably, in the pay of France."

This tirade made him a fitting subject for the Caricaturists, and they
did not forget him.

In a picture by Gillray, 14th Mar. 1798, "Operatical Reform, or La
Danse à l'Evêque," we recognise Miss Rose, on the extreme right of the
three ladies, who have little other covering for their bodies but the
episcopal apron and lawn sleeves. At the foot, is this verse--

  "'Tis hard for such new-fangled orthodox rules,
  That our Opera troupe should be blamed;
  Since, like our first Parents, they only (poor fools!)
  Danced naked, and were not ashamed."

And there was yet another amusing Caricature of the Prelate, in
connection with this subject. In July 1798, Gillray published a
picture of "More short Petticoats, or the Highland Association under
Episcopal Examination." The Bishop is accompanied by Lord Salisbury,
the then Lord Chamberlain, and inspects the Kilts of three
Highlanders, who assure him "You'll find them exactly according to the
rules of the Highland Association." But the Bishop's modesty is
blushing violently, and he replies "Don't tell me of rules, I say it's
abominable! It's about half a foot too short according to the opera
Standard. Bring the large breeches directly; why, the _figurantes_
would be ashamed of it."

[Illustration: Ecclesiastical Scrutiny.--or--the Durham Inquest on
Duty.--1798]




MASQUERADES, CONCERTS, &c.


Masquerades were introduced into England by Henry 8th, but, perhaps,
at no time were they so fashionable, as during the latter half of the
18th Century, although they do not always seem to have been
successful. The _Morning Post_, Feb. 6, 1788, speaks of a Masquerade
at the Opera House, thus:--"The Supper and Wines were consistent with
the well known parsimonious principle of the conductor, the provision
being very unequal to the _appetite_, and _number_, of the guests. The
music was very indifferent." Thus we see that these amusements were
not of equal quality, and the Critics did not fear to say what they
thought of them.

     "Pantheon, Jan. 26, 1788. The Nobility and Gentry are
     respectfully acquainted that the First Masqued Ball, at this
     place, will be on Thursday next, the 31st Instant. There will be
     a Supper as usual, with Wines, &c. Tickets at One Guinea each may
     be had at the Office."--(_Morning Post, Jan. 26, 1788._)

This Masquerade seemed to be very popular.

     "The Prince's visit to the Brandenburgh-house Masquerade was to
     have been in _female habiliments_; but the shortness of the
     notice did not allow time for preparing them, and neither the
     shoes, corsette, nor robe, of Mrs. Vanneck, for which his Royal
     Highness sent, could be made capacious enough for a momentary
     covering. The sailor's habit was, therefore, adopted without any
     preparation for the character. The Margravine's Masqued Ball
     produced many whimsical events, but none more than that from a
     character representing Acteon, who, in brandishing a huge pair of
     _antlers_, run full _butt_ against a French looking-glass of 300
     guineas value, and smashed it to pieces. The Margrave being near,
     endeavoured to give the accident a pleasant turn, by remarking in
     German 'that there could be no jollity where they let the _glass
     stand_.'"--(_Times, March 1, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The MASQUERADE.

     "The entertainment given by the Manager of the Opera House, on
     Monday night, was the best attended of any we have seen for many
     years, and fully answered the expectations that had been formed
     of it. The space allotted, however, large as it was, with the
     addition of the new room, and another above stairs, was by no
     means sufficient for so large a company: and the pressure of the
     crowd rendered the rooms insufferably hot, as well as prevented
     the masks from appearing to advantage. For so large an assembly,
     there were fewer masks than usual, but the hilarity of the
     company made amends for this deficiency. The Prince of Wales was
     in a black domino, arm-in-arm with Captain Churchill, and Lord
     George Conway; the Duke of Clarence was the whole evening with
     Mrs. _Jordan_ in a private box upstairs. _Michael Angelo Taylor_
     was dressed in women's cloaths, but was less talkative than
     usual. The supper was extremely well conducted, and the
     provisions better than usual. The refreshments were also
     liberally supplied. There were about 2700 persons in the rooms,
     and among them some of the prettiest women in town."--(_Times,
     March 5, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "MASQUERADE AT THE OPERA HOUSE.

     "On Thursday night, for the first time this season, there was a
     grand masquerade at this House, which was very numerously
     attended, as every room was crowded, and the numbers computed
     at about 1600. A party of _Bon-vivans_, unmasked, came into the
     rooms about two o'clock, who had evidently made too free use of
     the juice of the grape. The primitive dress of one of them, who
     appeared to be a Quaker, did not quite accord with his manners,
     which were more prone to the flesh than the spirit. Although the
     new regulations in price is in favour of Masquerades, yet the
     freedom of conversation which is allowed in these motley
     meetings, became, on this occasion, indecent ribaldry, and
     licentiousness. The _lowness_ of the price of admission was in a
     great measure the cause of introducing many _low_ visitors, who
     made themselves obnoxious to delicacy, and good manners, by the
     coarsest language."--(_Times, Feb. 17, 1798._)

[Illustration: Madame Cornelys.]

There is a paragraph in the _Times_ of August 23, 1797, whereby "hangs
a tale"--

     "The miserable death of Mrs. Cornelys, in the Fleet Prison, adds
     another melancholy instance to the catalogue of vicissitudes in
     what is generally termed _fashionable life_. She was formerly the
     law-giver of the circles of dissipation, and gaiety, yet closed
     her existence in the hospital room of the prison, in which she
     had obtained permission to reside, by the kindness of the
     Warden."

The history of Teresa Cornelys is very singular, showing how a
nobody--for no one knows even from what part of Germany she
came--could come here, and, by her business qualities, and tact,
become a person absolutely indispensable to Society. All we know of
her is that she was supposed to be a German, who had been a public
singer, both in France, and Germany, and that she came over here about
1756 or 1757. Whether there was a Herr Cornelys alive, we have no
knowledge--but she had a son, and daughter. That she was not bad
looking, is evidenced by her portrait, which must have been taken in
her declining years: that she must have been shrewd, business-like,
and possessed of much _savoir faire_, is undeniable--for she held
"Society" in her grasp, and, for a time, made it do just what she
wanted.

What she did for the first five, or six years, after her coming to
England is not known, but she must have been possessed of some
Capital, or she could not have taken, as she did, Carlisle House--a
mansion in Soho Square. Here she started a sort of fashionable Social
Club, called "The Society," either in 1762, or 1763, and this was its
programme. "The subscription is seven guineas for twelve nights, one
ticket each, which introduces only one person, whether gentleman, or
lady; but there are frequent subscriptions in the year, and two ladies
may be admitted six nights on one subscription. No person can be
admitted a Subscriber to this Society, but through the recommendation
of a subscriber. Four ladies of quality, having each of them a book,
have the joint management, direction, and choice, of the subscribers;
every one's name must be entered in one of those ladies' books.

"A non-subscriber can only be admitted by a subscriber's ticket,
writing his, or her name on the back; in consequence of which rule,
and to avoid the possibility of improper company, their names are,
immediately after the night is over, printed, and hung up in the outer
room.

"The doors are opened, at 9 o'clock, of the lower rooms, which consist
of six, each superior to the other; few people, however, assemble
before 10, and those who profess themselves of the genteelest order,
not till eleven, when they walk about, and amuse themselves with
accosting their acquaintance, and forming themselves into select
parties for the evening; then regaling with jellies, syllabubs, cakes,
orgeat, lemonade, fruits, &c., prepared in a kind of arched shelving
all round the hangings of the tea room.

"At ten, the upper flight of rooms open, which consist of two large
rooms, besides a very large ball room, furnished, and hung, in the
most superb taste, with an exceeding good band of music in an
orchestra erected at the upper end, and rows of benches, down the
sides, placed one above the other. In this room they dance country
dances, but no minuets at all.

"At half-past eleven, the company in general repair to tea, and have
small round tables for their separate parties.

"At twelve, the Cotillion gallery opens, with another range of seven
rooms underground, which, from the vast variety of furniture and
ornaments, the grandeur, and magnificence, of some, the elegant
simplicity of others, together with the amazing beauty of the lights,
one of the principal excellencies of the whole, form a view, on
descending a perpendicular flight of stairs most sumptuously, and
pleasingly, striking.

"In these lower range of rooms, the company finish the evening, the
young in dancing cotillions, the others in looking on; for there are
no cards, nor gaming, of any kind. At one, the company begin to
separate, and continue going till four, but the major part break up
about two."

By which set of rules we see that Madame Cornelys, started her
establishment in the strictest propriety, whatever became of it
afterwards; and these rules were strictly carried out. The rooms, on
off nights, were used for other purposes; for instance, she, knowing
the power of the class, gave a servants' ball; and the Old Westminster
scholars held their Anniversary Meeting in her rooms.

Her prosperity excited envy, and many were the rumours set afloat, to
her detriment. For instance, in 1766, it was said she owed her late
cook £50, and that she had run away from her ruined creditors, to
France, with many thousand pounds.

She had to contradict these reports, and said that she had, within
thirteen months, spent £11,000, on the house, &c.

Concerts, both instrumental and vocal, were given at Carlisle House,
and the tickets for them, which survive, are very beautiful, many of
them being drawn by Cipriani, and engraved by Bartolozzi.

The Royal Family used to patronise her _soirées_, as did also the King
of Denmark, when he visited England in 1768.

Early in 1770, she gave her first Masquerade, which immediately
lowered the tone of her establishment, and was the precursor of her
downfall. This was under the patronage of the "Tuesday Night's Club,"
and the Dukes of Gloucester, and Cumberland--besides numbers of the
aristocracy of both sexes, were present, and it was a very brilliant
affair.

She had another grand Masquerade on 6 February 1771, to which the
price of admission was two and a half guineas. The same Royalty was
present, and also the leading Nobility--Among the masques were five
devils, a bear, and, worst of all bad taste, a shrouded corpse in a
coffin, (said to be a brother of Colonel Luttrell), but he was, after
a short time, ejected by some pseudo sailors.

[Illustration: The Female Coterie.]

From this time her fortunes declined--she was twice fined £50 for
performing Operas, under the guise of harmonic meetings, and Guadagni,
her principal vocalist, had been fined £50 for singing in the same,
and these musical performances were put a stop to.

But, in spite of all her enemies could do to her, she still had some
friends, if we can believe the _London Chronicle_, 19-21 February
1771.

"A certain D----s, who is a principal promoter of the New Opera
House, declared, lately, she would persist in support of Mrs. C.,
whatever was the consequence, 'for,' said she, 'I hate the thoughts of
mixing with any body merely because they have half a guinea in their
pocket; and that such scums should sit on the same bench, and think
themselves on a level with the first nobility!' 'I agree with you'
(says Lady A----r), 'and am grieved to think that we are, one day or
other to mix in heaven with the dregs of the people.' 'God forbid'
(says the D----s), 'I should ever be in such company.'"

The Subscription balls, and Masquerades still went on--and she
instituted a society called "the Coterie," which had not the
reputation of insisting on the strictest morality on the part of its
members.

This _coterie_ broke up. The Pantheon was built, and opened, in
opposition to her. Perhaps she was extravagant, but, anyhow, from some
cause or other, she became bankrupt, and was so gazetted on the 9th
Nov. 1772, as a "chapwoman, and dealer in gloves." Her goods were sold
in Dec. 1772, and it must have been a famous sale, as the Catalogues,
to admit two, were five shillings each.

She, herself, was taken to a debtor's prison, where she could not have
stopped very long, as there are advertisements of Masquerades
conducted by her, at Carlisle House, in the spring and summer of 1773.

She was again a bankrupt in Dec. 1774, and Carlisle House was
advertised to be sold. Still, somehow or other, she must have found
friends, with money, to help her, for she issued an advertisement, 15
January 1776. "Mrs. Cornelys most respectfully takes the liberty to
acquaint the nobility, and gentry, that, through the kind assistance
of her friends, she is again reinstated in Carlisle House, on her own
account."

But nothing could bring back her old patrons, and the social status of
her masked balls got lower and lower. Worse than all, the refreshments
were not so plentiful as of old, as we may see in the "Citizen's
Complaint to the Priestess of Soho," which concludes thus--

  "Yet fairy scenes and preparations,
  With all your novel decorations,
  Are diet fitter, let me tell ye,
  To feed the Fancy than the Belly."

In 1778, Carlisle House was again to be sold, but still Madame
Cornelys, somehow, kept her clutches on it. She established an
"Academy of Sciences and Belles Lettres"--a Library with Newspapers,
&c.--and a debating society, open to both Sexes. This "School of
Eloquence" collapsed in 1781. Scientific lectures, Joseph Borouwlaski,
the Polish Dwarf, and some more Masquerades, were all tried, but
without avail, to resuscitate her fallen fortunes. It was said that
she gave four and a half Masquerades, the half being accounted for, by
the fact that no license had been taken out, and the masquers were
ejected.

After 1782 Carlisle House seems to have been shut up; on 28 June 1785,
Christie sold the furniture, China, and other effects; and in 1788 the
old Mansion was pulled down, and what was the grand Saloon has been
altered into a Roman Catholic Chapel, St. Patrick's, Soho.

There is no record of Madame for some years, but we know from
Newspaper notices, that in 1792 she took a large house and grounds in
Knightsbridge Road, formerly occupied by a dealer in Asses milk, and
converted it into a "female archery."

Luck was against her, this failed; she was very old, had fought her
fight, and now the refuge for the remainder of her days was the Fleet
Prison. There, however, she met with kindness from friends, and help
from her daughter, who was very accomplished, and no more is heard of
her, until the paragraph in the _Times_, which heads this memoir.

     "Masquerade at Marlboro House.

     "At the Duchess of Marlborough's Gala, on Wednesday evening, one
     of the principal ornaments was the _statute_ of Precedency,
     elegantly illuminated, in variegated lamps over the grand
     entrance. Lyon, Clarencieux, and Garter, Kings-at-Arms, in their
     coats of office, were stationed in the hall, and marshalled the
     guests upon their arrival. Upon the first landing place, were Her
     Grace's Vice-Chamberlain, and three Masters of the Ceremonies,
     attended by deputy Masters, and the Pages of the Presence, and
     back staircase. In the antechamber, covers were provided for the
     Lord Mayor, and Sheriffs of London, whose pease were said to be
     served cold, but his Lordship eat his peaches without hazarding
     any remarks. His Mace was thought to be one of the finest pieces
     of sculpture ever executed in pastry. It contained a fine
     pine-apple in the capital, with a beautiful crown in
     Naples-biscuit, and his chair was entirely composed of barley
     sugar drops. In the next room were the Barons and Baronesses, the
     newly created ones next the door, and the premier Baron very
     near, but not in contact with the lowest Viscount, in the
     corridor of the third chamber. The Lord Chamberlain, the Lords of
     the Bedchamber, the Gold and Silver Sticks, &c., had their wands
     of the best double refined sugar, excepting the Gold Stick, whose
     staff was of barley-sugar, or as some say sugar-candy.

     "In the inner rooms, according to their rank, and date, were
     placed the Earls, Marquisses, and Dukes of England. The premier
     Duke, and E. M., nearest to the Noble Hostess. The Lords on the
     cross bench were served with some difficulty by _Beefeaters_, who
     were obliged to move like the Knights at Chess, which had a very
     pretty effect. It added to the liveliness, and gaiety of the
     meeting, that every mask had for its neighbour, on both hands,
     the same individual it conversed with so frequently at Mr.
     Hasting's trial, which made the 'I know you,' and 'Who are you?'
     exceedingly facetious and happy. The Lords of the Bedchamber were
     in high glee, and spirits, but were discovered by their jokes,
     some of which were remembered upon former occasions. The Maids of
     Honour were in perfect character and detected in an
     instant."--(_Times, June 21, 1799._)

Music was much in vogue both publicly and in private. Concerts were
plentiful, the most aristocratic, perhaps, being held in Willis's
Rooms, of which I will give one Advertisement, relating to a ball.

     Advt.--"Assembly Rooms, King Street, St. James's Square.

     "Willis humbly begs leave to acquaint the Nobility, and Gentry,
     Subscribers, that the first Ball, this season, commences This
     Day.

     "The Rooms will be lighted at Ten, and the Ball will be opened at
     Half-past Ten o'clock, precisely.

     "_N.B._--By order of the Ladies (Directresses), no person
     whatever will be admitted without producing their ticket, and no
     ticket but those of the night, can possibly be admitted.

     "The Nobility and Gentry are most earnestly requested to order
     their Coachmen to set down, and take up, with their horses'
     heads towards St. James's Street.

     "The side doors are for chairs only."--(_Morning Post, Feb. 14,
     1788._)

[Illustration: A Country Concert, or, An Evening's Entertainment in
Sussex.]

This refers only to the subscription Balls, which were so famous, and
so select--but, as I said above, this was the chiefest Concert Hall. A
greater libel against the English nation never was uttered, than when
it was said they were not a musical nation--and it was, essentially,
in Chamber music, glees, madrigals, ballads--small home concerts in
which a few friends met together and spent a pleasant evening--in
which the harpsichord, or pianoforte (for that instrument was then in
vogue), joined with the cello, violin, and flute, in pretty, and
harmonious, quartets.

This Illustration shows Mrs. Billington and the Duke of Sussex, with
two friends, thus engaged, and an exceedingly home-like group it is.

It was an unusual thing for ladies, then, to play on any other
instruments than the harpsichord, or piano, and the harp, or guitar;
this latter coming specially into vogue, some twenty years later,
after the Peninsular War, so Mrs. Billington created some surprise.

     "_Mrs. Billington_ who is solicitous for musical distinction in
     any respect, as far as her talents can extend, is now applying,
     with very great diligence, to the _violin_; and, from the present
     state of her progress, it is supposed she will hereafter figure
     amongst the most shining performers on that
     instrument."--(_Morning Post, Feb. 16, 1788._)

Judging by this illustration, the ladies of 1799 were not at all
restricted in their choice of instruments.

_Apropos_ of Concerts, we get several paragraphs about them from one
Newspaper, the _Morning Post_ of Jan. 15, 1789.

     "Since the illness of a certain Great Personage,[12] Lady Young
     has entirely surmounted her _religious qualms_, and is
     determined, once more, in defiance of the proclamation, to fix
     her Concerts on the Sabbath Day. Thus, Politics and religion,
     and music, go hand in hand."

          [Footnote 12: The King's first attack of insanity.]

     "Lord Hampden, Lord Cholmondeley, the Duke of Queensbury, Lady
     Petres, the Duchess of Bolton, Lady Bridget Tollemache, &c., &c.,
     will have their alternate concerts, as usual."

     "The dissensions continually subsisting between the different
     performers and directors of the Tottenham Street Concert,[13]
     added to the present indisposition of its Royal Patron, and the
     daily decrease of subscribers, will, it is feared, reduce that
     _light_ amusement to its primitive obscurity."

          [Footnote 13: Ancient Music.]

     "Should Cramer quit the above Concert, it will be a loss not to
     be repaired, as they might as well attempt to proceed without
     Harrison, as without that incomparable leader. Mr. Bate may
     conduct, but he cannot lead; every man may _blow the bellows_,
     but it is certainly more difficult to _play the organ_."

     "Lord Uxbridge's new Music Room in _Vigo Lane_, will be opened in
     the course of this season; the time is not yet fixed, but it is
     supposed it will be as magnificent a _Gala_, as music can afford.
     The extreme care taken that nothing should obstruct the sound,
     has nearly answered every purpose, and it certainly promises to
     be the best _private_ room for music in London;--we hope, when
     filled with company, the small reverberation at present
     remaining, will be entirely dispelled."

It is sad to read of such a case of reverse of fortune as the
following:--

     "A French Marchioness, who a few years since, possessed a fortune
     of £5000 a year, is engaged to sing before their Majesties at the
     Concerts of Antient Music, which commence on Wednesday
     next."--(_Times, Feb. 1, 1794._)

[Illustration: Savoyards of Fashion--1799.]

Of Pictorial Art, we hear but little in Old Times--but the Art Critic
of the _Morning Post_, May 20, 1788, did not fear to speak out, and
give his opinion freely.

     "Royal Academy.

     "235. Theseus receiving the Clue from Ariadne. H. Fuseli.--Poor
     Theseus, with a broken leg, is endeavouring to support Ariadne,
     whose figure suggests more the idea of a _sick ideot_, than a
     beautiful woman. Whilst we pity the situation of these two
     lovers, we cannot forbear laughing at the little cock-tailed
     Minotaur, galoping about, for amusement, in the distance. The
     design, however, has some merit, but Theseus appears as if he had
     left his skin behind him, and, indeed, some of his muscles are
     not in their proper places.

     "181. Portraits of three Children. P. Reinagle, A.--The Colouring
     of this picture is _Currant Jelly_ and _Chalk_. The glare of
     crimson and red, confines the eye, in such a manner, that it is
     difficult to find out what the subject is meant for. This picture
     (like most of this Artist's works) is an imitation of the stile
     of some other master, which is certainly very commendable in a
     painter who possesses no genius of his own; but as we do not
     think this is the case with Mr. Reinagle, we recommend him, as
     before, to look at nature.

     "175. Portrait of a young Gentleman, and his brother, flying a
     Kite. W. R. Bigg, A.--We cannot determine on the likeness of
     these portraits; we are also at a loss to say, whether the
     figures, or the Kite, are drawn with most taste and elegance."

Fuseli opened a Gallery for the display of a series of his paintings
illustrating "Paradise lost."

     Advt.--"The general impression felt by all kinds of people, on
     entering the Milton Gallery, is, this is unlike everything we
     have seen before. The old nurses stories about the devil are
     properly confuted by the exhibition of a figure that is bold,
     daring, and majestic, and a model of muscular strength and
     gigantic symmetry. 'I have often wondered,' said a Lady, 'how Eve
     could have been tempted to transgress by such a hideous monster,
     as Satan has been represented to me: but, if he was, in reality,
     such a being as Mr. Fuseli paints him, why--That accounts for
     it.'"[14]--(_Times, June 17, 1799._)

          [Footnote 14: A slang phrase then in use.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt. "CURIOUS NEEDLEWORK.

     "VIEWS in EMBROIDERY will begin to be exhibited THIS DAY at No.
     11, New Bond St., consisting of three views of Constantinople,
     two of Egypt, one of Switzerland, one of Weymouth, one of the
     Tower, and London Bridge, and of Blackfriars, &c., taken from the
     top of the Albion Mills, the same as has been seen at the
     Panorama.--Admittance 2s. 6d. An Explanation, with a sketch of
     the above Views, will be given gratis, at the place of
     Exhibition."--(_Times, April 13, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt. "DAY EXHIBITIONS.

     "The convenience of Day Exhibitions must be obvious to the Polite
     Circles, who are otherwise engaged in the evening.

     "At the MECHANIC THEATRE, No. 38 Norfolk Street, Strand, will be
     exhibited the

     "ANDROIDES.

     "Doors open every day at half-past 12, and begins at 1, and every
     Evening doors open at half-past 7 and begins at 8.

     "These much-admired Pieces of Mechanism, which not only imitate
     human actions, but appear to possess rational powers, consist of,
     1st--

     "The Writing Automaton.--A Figure, about the size of a Boy of
     four years old, which will be brought to a table, and set to
     write any word, words, or figures required, in a round legible
     hand. 2nd--

     "The Fruitery--the model of a neat rural mansion, and contains
     the following figures: first, the Porter, which stands in the
     gate, and, on being addressed, rings a bell, when the door opens,
     the Fruiteress comes out, and any Lady, or Gentleman, may call
     for whatever fruit they please, and the figure will return, and
     bring the kind required, which may be repeated; and the fruit
     varied as often as the company pleases: it will likewise receive
     flowers, or any small articles, carry them in, and produce them
     again, as called for. As the Fruits are brought out, they will be
     given in charge to a Watch Dog, which sits in front of the house,
     and on any person taking away, or touching them, will begin to
     bark, and continue to do so until they are returned. The next
     figure belonging to this piece is, the Little Chimney Sweeper,
     which will be seen coming from behind the house, will enter the
     door, appear at the top of the chimney, and give the usual cry of
     'Sweep' several times, descend the chimney, and come out with its
     bag full of soot.--Third,

     "The Liquor Merchant and Water Server. These are on a platform
     of about two feet square, which (as the former pieces) will be
     placed on a table. The Liquor Merchant stands at a small cask
     from which it will draw every kind of spirits, wine, &c.,
     required. The Water Server stands at a pump, and will fill a
     tumbler with water as often as called for.--Fourth,

     "The Highland Oracle: a Figure in the Highland Dress, stands on a
     Time-piece, and gives the Hour and Minutes whenever asked, by
     striking its Sword on a Target: it gives a rational Answer (by
     Motion) to any Question proposed: it calculates Sums in
     Arithmetic, and gives the amount instantly of any number of
     pounds, yards, &c., at any given price, beats time to music, &c.

     "The Table the different Pieces will be played on, contains an
     Organ, on which the Proprietor introduces a few Notes: also

     "The Machine or (self-playing) Organ, will play occasionally
     several Pieces of Music, Airs, Country Dances, &c.

     "Mr. Hadcock flatters himself the Androides will be found more
     curious than anything of the kind ever before offered to the
     Public, as the principles of Action are entirely new. The Theatre
     is neatly fitted up, and everything calculated to give
     satisfaction to a polite and discerning Audience.

     "Boxes 4s., Gallery 2s. Admittance, after the Two First Parts,
     Half Price. Exhibition lasts nearly Two hours."--(_Times, Jany.
     15, 1796._)

If there was little mention of "Art," in the old newspapers, there was
still less of "Literature," except in the advertisement of new books.

     "What is Jemmy Boswell about? where is his Life and Adventures of
     the _great Lexicographer_, the Atlas of obscure sentiment, and
     pompous phraseology? Mrs. Piozzi's last work hath been read, and
     re-read, with avidity, and admiration. If the men doth not look
     sharp, the women will run off with all the biographic
     laurels."--(_Morning Post, June 12, 1788._)

Mrs. Thrale's book, "Letters to and from S. Johnson," was published in
1788, and her "Anecdotes of S. Johnson, during the last twenty years
of his life," in 1786. Boswell's "Life of Samuel Johnson," &c., was
published in 1791.

     "The last exit of the celebrated Mr. Gibbon, was attended with
     some very extraordinary circumstances. He was sitting with an
     intimate friend, on the evening of his death, and remarking of
     himself, that he thought there was a probability of his enjoying
     thirteen, or fourteen, more years of life. He had not been long
     in bed, before he was seized with excruciating pains. He
     endeavoured to swallow some brandy, but in vain. He then made a
     signal to his valet to leave the room, and in a few minutes
     expired. He has left everything indiscriminately to a young Swiss
     gentleman, to whom he was attached, and who accompanied him last
     year to this country."--(_Times, Jany. 27, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Four thousand and seventy three Novels are now in the Press,
     from the pens of young Ladies of Fashion. At Mrs. D----'s School
     all the young Ladies write Novels, in the fourth class!! and
     those whose parents are rich, or honourable, are at the expense
     of printing them. Lady L. G. and Lady C. C. are busily employed
     upon two rival Novels, which are the favourite work for Young
     Ladies at present: and the lawful successors of bell-ropes,
     coronet cushions, and painted flower-pots. Lady G.'s is
     entitled--'Duke or no Duke,' Lady Charlotte's 'All for Nothing.'
     Those who have seen the latter, are loud in the praise of its
     beauties: the plot of the former is not thought to have been
     _well laid_."--(_Times, April 18, 1796._)




MONETARY.


We are apt to think that among the other advantages of progressive
Civilisation which we possess in this latter part of the 19th Century,
Commercial failures and stoppage of Banks are peculiarly our own, but
it was not so; the years 1793 and 1796--the former especially--were
times of severe mercantile depression--the tale of which is best told
in the language of the times.

     "The late considerable failures in the City are no longer to be
     concealed; public credit cannot therefore, suffer the more by our
     publishing the fact. Four very considerable mercantile Houses
     have stopped payment within the last ten days: they are
     principally engaged in American West India Brokerage, and
     Insurance concerns. One house, alone, has failed for £800,000,
     and another for £500,000. It is feared that many more persons
     will become involved in these failures--as there has been a very
     extensive circulation of paper. The failures already known, are
     estimated at three millions, and it is conjectured that they will
     extend to two millions more. They have, naturally, created a
     great scarcity of cash in the City, and the Bank, as well as the
     Bankers, are extremely shy of discounting."--(_Times, Feb. 28,
     1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Some more very considerable failures have taken place in the
     City, within the last two or three days. A very large African
     house, at Bristol, has likewise stopped payment, and the letters
     from thence advise, that it is feared many more will
     follow."--(_Times, March 10, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Bankers, in the City, have refused to discount any more
     paper, for the present. The alarm on the Royal Exchange, is
     beyond conception to those who are not in business."--(_Times,
     March 26, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At the Meeting, on Monday, of the Noblemen, and Gentlemen,
     belonging to the County of Northumberland, we understand that
     £340,000 was subscribed, to support the Newcastle Banks, the
     Proprietors of which, are gentlemen of the first landed property,
     and known to be worth many hundred thousand pounds.

     "The commercial stoppages, we are sorry to learn, have at length
     reached Manchester, and the most serious inconveniencies are to
     be dreaded, if some effectual support is not given to that town.
     The mischief is so much dreaded, that a committee of Gentlemen,
     of that town, have come to London, to offer securities to the
     Bank, provided it will afford a temporary relief to the
     manufacturers who reside there."--(_Times, April 18, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Public Credit.

     "The very depressed state of the public credit of the country, is
     now so universally known, and felt, that it cannot suffer any
     additional injury by our stating the fact, and the means which
     are about to be carried into effect, as an experiment of relief.
     We daily hear of new stoppages among persons, many of whom have
     ever been considered as men of large real property: on a very
     minute, and fair, enquiry into the truth of this supposition, we
     have the best reason to believe that the fact is so; and that a
     very large proportion of mercantile houses, which have been,
     lately, obliged to suspend their payments, is still solvent, and
     well able to pay every demand, in the course of time. At
     Manchester, Liverpool, and other large trading towns,
     particularly at the former, this fact is well authenticated; but
     the failures at the country banks have stopped the circulation of
     money so suddenly, that present engagements have not been able to
     be fulfilled. To adopt a remedy, if possible, at this very
     alarming state of public credit, a meeting was held at Mr. Pitt's
     house, in Downing Street, on Monday last, to consult on the
     business. The grievance being explained to Mr. Pitt, he assured
     the Gentlemen of his anxiety, and readiness to give every
     assistance, in his power, to the mercantile interest, and he
     requested they would consult among themselves, and form some
     specific proposition, for his consideration. A meeting was
     accordingly held, yesterday morning, at the Mansion-house, to
     consider of the plan which should be proposed to Mr. Pitt. The
     number of gentlemen was reduced to 11, as being more convenient:
     and, at nine o'clock last night, they waited on the Minister, to
     obtain his approbation.

     "We do not take upon us to state, OFFICIALLY, the nature of the
     plan which has been proposed, but we are led to believe that the
     outlines of it are as follows: 'That four millions of Exchequer
     Bills should be issued for the support of public credit, as a
     loan to the mercantile interest; that the security required,
     should be on goods actually warehoused, and the advance to be
     made on two-thirds of their value. Commissioners to be appointed
     to superintend the securities, and the value of the merchandise.
     The Exchequer Bills to be called in as they become redeemed. The
     borrowers to be answerable for any loss in the discount of them.'
     The plan was left for Mr. Pitt's consideration, who is to give
     his answer this morning. Should he approve of it, it is probable
     he will propose some resolution upon it, this day, in the House
     of Commons, to the end that the relief may be as speedy as
     possible."--(_Times, April 24, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Funds continued falling yesterday, and Consols were below
     60, for money. We shall be very much surprised if there were not
     some very considerable failures before the next settling day.
     Some persons connected with French Houses are known to be great
     losers."--(_Times, July 15, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We yesterday mentioned our expectation that there would be
     considerable failures among persons connected with French Houses,
     before the next settling day. A principal Stockbroker,
     immediately connected with a Gentleman, formerly a Member of the
     Legislative Assembly, in France, was, yesterday declared a
     defaulter at the Stock Exchange. His differences are upon near
     half a million of Stock, which he had purchased at 67 and 68.
     This failure is the commencement of exposing that destructive
     system of gambling, called _continuations_. The Consols were done
     yesterday at 59, for money."--(_Times, July 16, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Notwithstanding the enormous failures of two Stock brokers,
     whose differences amount to full £100,000, the desperate game of
     _Continuation_ still continues nearly as strong as ever. Bargains
     for time, in Stock, were yesterday made for the next settling
     day, at a rate of 20 per cent., Interest."--(_Times, July 20,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A very extraordinary fluctuation took place, yesterday, in the
     Funds, which, after having fallen in the early part of the day,
     to 53-1/4, rose, towards the close of the market, to 56-7/8 for
     the October settling. The reason alleged, for this sudden rise,
     was, that Mr. _Hammond_ having been unsuccessful at Berlin, had
     gone from thence to Paris. Such was the report!"--(_Times, Sept.
     7, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Chancellor (Irish) has declared from the Bench, that, in the
     present period of distress, no person shall be made a
     Bankrupt."--(_Times, June 12, 1796._)

The following is but a foreshadowing of our Railway Mania:--

     "_Canal Shares_, which at one time rose to £180, are now down to
     £40. The _Mania_ is over; and this _earth-cutting_ business, in a
     great measure, at a stand."--(_Times, Aug. 16, 1796._)

In 1796, there was an extraordinary scarcity of silver, which taxed
severely, the resources of the Government to meet. The difficulty was
met, to some extent, by the issue of Spanish Dollars, taken from
Prizes, and stamped at the Tower, where the Mint then was, with a
small head of the King.--These were issued at 4s. 9d. each--The same
scarcity arose in 1803-4, and the same expedient was resorted
to--only then the dollars were issued at a price over their value, so
as to offer no premium for their destruction.

     "So great is the scarcity, and high price of silver, that the
     silver smiths give 5s. 3d. for a crown piece, and a premium is
     given for shillings."--(_Times, Jan. 7, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_Silver_ is so exceedingly scarce, that there is not a
     sufficient quantity, for exchange, in the channels of business,
     either good, or bad, and yet we are sorry to observe (which we
     have repeatedly) the number of unfortunate victims who are, every
     Session, brought to trial, for coining. Surely the wisdom of the
     Legislature might prevent this evil, by issuing a sufficient
     quantity for the purposes of circulation."--(_Times, Sept. 15,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The distress for want of Silver, is daily, more and more felt
     among the trading parts of the Metropolis. These are put to the
     greatest inconvenience, for want of a greater circulation; and,
     we understand that those who have many men in their employ, are
     obliged to give one per cent., to procure it. The many complaints
     which are made, on this subject, induces us to hope that the
     issue of a fresh coinage, from the Mint, will speedily take
     place. The want of it has another bad effect, as it increases the
     coining of base half-pence."--(_Times, Sept. 29, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday, the Committee of Bankers had another Meeting at Mr.
     Pitt's, to request his interference in procuring them a certain
     quantity of specie, for the demands of their business. The
     Minister returned for answer, that he could only assist them, at
     present, with 50,000 guineas: which, being divided among all the
     Bankers, will not amount to 1000 guineas for each House.

     "We hope that the Bank, instead of issuing dollars at 4s. 6d.,
     will place a value of 5s. on them, in order that they may not
     become an object of traffic: their intrinsic worth is above 4s.
     6d., and they should, therefore, be issued at some higher price,
     in order that they may not be hoarded.

     "There can be no doubt whatever, but that large sums of specie
     have been drawn out of the Bank, and concealed in the houses, or
     gardens, of private persons. As this stoppage of general
     circulation is highly prejudicial to the Public Weal, we have
     only to observe to such persons, that their extreme, and foolish
     timidity, may produce, to themselves, the very consequences they
     seek to avert: and that, instead of being richer, they may fall
     the first victims of their alarms. Wherever large sums of money
     are privately deposited, except it is with those whose occupation
     it is to hold it, such persons are likely to be the first objects
     of popular revenge. The Bank, or the houses of Bankers, are the
     only secure places of deposits."--(_Times, March 3, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "According to letters received, on Wednesday, in town, the Banks
     at Norwich, and at Bath, have stopped payment in specie. Since
     the news reached the country, of the Bank of England stopping
     payment, not a guinea is to be had, in exchange for Bank-notes,
     on any of the Public roads."--(_Times, March 3, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Saturday, a small quantity of one, and two, Pound Notes were
     issued from the Bank, principally for the use of the country. A
     very large issue will be made in the course of this day, and
     to-morrow."--(_Times, March 6, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "This day, the Governors of the Bank will issue a quantity of
     dollars, to which the Tower Stamp is affixed, in order to relieve
     the present embarrassment arising from scarcity of
     specie."--(_Times, March 6, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Sterling Silver was done, on Saturday, as high as 5s. 8d. per
     ounce, and Gold at £4, 8s. The price of Silver, is 5d. per ounce,
     above the rate at which coined silver passes, and the price of
     Gold 10s. per ounce, above the current price of the
     Guinea!"--(_Times, March 8, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday, the Bank began to issue Dollars at 4s. 9d. each.
     There is the Mint Stamp affixed to each, which consists of the
     King's Head, marked on the King of Spain's neck. We trust that
     this issue of Dollars is intended to make room for a new
     importation from some rich Spanish prizes, which we hope to see
     in some of our ports."--(_Times, March 10, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Several German Hard Dollars, or four-gold-pieces, nominally
     worth 4s. 8d. have been issued from the Bank, in the same manner
     as the Spanish Dollar."--(_Times, March 27, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Dollars now issuing at the _Bank_, are those which were
     taken on board the _St. Jago_ prize ship."--(_Times, March 17,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A very serious inconvenience has occurred to many people, from
     the multiplicity of forgeries in the stamps on the dollars,
     which, from being issued by the Bank, at a price so far above
     their real value, has tempted the coiners to forge the Mint
     Stamp, which it is impossible for a common observer to detect.
     Since their first issue, many chests of dollars have been
     imported into this country, for the sole purpose of forging the
     stamp. As they are circulated at 4s. 9d., and their value is only
     4s. 2d., it has afforded too great a temptation to be resisted.
     Besides the vast number of copper dollars coined, it is supposed
     that more than half of those in circulation, are counterfeited in
     the stamp, though the dollars are good. When taken to the Bank
     they are refused, which has caused a deal of ill
     humour."--(_Times, Sept. 4, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In consequence of the great quantity of bad Dollars, in
     circulation, the Bank Directors gave notice, in the Gazette of
     last night; that they mean to issue Gold coin, to the amount of
     the Dollars now in circulation, and which have been stamped at
     the Tower."--(_Times, Sept. 27, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Dollars having been taken out of circulation, there is now
     such a scarcity of silver, as to impede the ordinary negotiation
     of business very materially. It would be a public convenience if
     the new 7s. gold coin was put in circulation."--(_Times, Oct. 5,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The new gold coinage of seven shilling pieces is to be issued
     from the Bank, this day."--(_Times, Dec. 1, 1797._)

Up to this time forgeries of Bank of England notes had been very rare.

     "Last week a man was apprehended at Manchester, on a charge of
     forging Bank of England notes. On searching his house, was found
     a plate, with a one pound note engraved, on one side of it, and a
     two pound note, on the other; together with a number of notes
     just struck off, but not filled up. On his examination he
     confessed the fact, and thereby impeached his brother, who, he
     said, was then in Yorkshire: and acknowledged that they had
     practised it about six months, during which time they had
     disposed of about 200."--(_Times, March 30, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A small delivery of Mr. Boulton's 2d. pieces, was, on Friday,
     made at the Treasury; the likeness of the King is much better
     executed than in the 1d. pieces: they are full twice their
     thickness, weighing rather better than two ounces
     each."--(_Times, Feby. 12, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The trade of counterfeit halfpence, though it got a temporary
     check within the last five weeks, is again getting forward. The
     turnpike men, coffee-house waiters, haberdashers' shops, fruit
     women, and porter houses, are at their old work. The turnpike men
     will give bad, but not take them at present. If the traveller
     objects, he is abused and kept waiting, perhaps ten minutes, for
     change of 6d.: the coffee-house waiters say they have no others,
     and that they give and take; the haberdashers fold the change up
     in a clean bit of paper, which when opened, contains the worst of
     counterfeit halfpence: and the fruit women and porter houses say
     'they give what they take.'"--(_Times, Oct. 2, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Bad shillings are sold to chandlers shops, turnpike men, and
     waiters at coffee-houses and taverns, at the rate of _twenty
     shillings_ for _five and sixpence_. No wonder they are in such
     general circulation."--(_Times, Nov. 29, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At this season the Jew fruitmen should be particularly guarded
     against. They care not at how small a price they sell, so the
     quantum reaches to _silver_. In that case it is their custom 'to
     hope you will give them good silver, as the gardeners are very
     particular.' They then rub it with both thumbs, dexterously
     contriving to fillip up your shilling, and drop down another,
     which they beg you to change, protesting that they believed it
     good but are not certain. Serving you the same a second or third
     time, and you are induced through an appearance of great
     civility, and apparent ignorance, to indulge them. The silver you
     receive as your own is speciously good: but it changes black in a
     few hours. The writer of this bought his experience at the price
     of three succeeding shillings."--(_Times, July, 30, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "BAD HALFPENCE.

     "To the Master of the Mint--

     "The Petition of more than Ten Millions of bad Halfpence,

     "Most humbly showeth,

     "That your Petitioners, for a number of years, have given bread
     to thousands of his Majesty's subjects, called Coiners: and that
     they have been long in uncontrouled circulation:

     "That your Petitioners have enabled Waiters at Taverns, and other
     houses, to wear hair-powder, to the manifest increase of his
     Majesty's Stamp-duties.

     "That your Petitioners have been the means of the Turnpike Tolls
     increasing in value, on account of the Toll-takers being obliged
     to put off a certain quantity of your Petitioners, each week, at
     a stipulated price from the Renters.

     "That your Petitioners have long been a fine _bonus_ to the
     Paymaster Serjeants of the different Regiments, who bought your
     Petitioners at the rate of 30s. for 20s., thereby making those
     brave fellows to live more comfortably, than their regular pay
     would allow them to do:

     "That your Petitioners have, for a series of time, been of
     infinite service to those industrious men, the Tribes of Levi,
     and Manassa, who distributed your Petitioners, in the most
     plentiful manner, to their own great advantage:

     "That your Petitioners have, in some manner, been the means of
     peopling Botany Bay, as numbers of persons, who were first in the
     habit of forming your Petitioners, afterwards mounted to the
     honour of making shillings, and sixpences:

     "That your Petitioners, with great sorrow, perceive, by the
     effect of a new coinage of Penny, and Twopenny Pieces, that their
     existence is rapidly on the decline:

     "Your Petitioners therefore pray that their grievances may be
     taken into consideration: and they will, as in duty bound, ever
     pray.

                                             Bad Halfpence."

     --(_Times, Aug. 17, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "FALSE COINAGE.

     "The numerous evils arising from the now general circulation of
     Base Money, are too well known, to make it necessary that they
     should be dwelt on by us. We have always considered the different
     Administrations of this Country, as highly blameable for not
     paying more attention, than they have done, to prevent the
     nefarious practices which are introduced in the introduction of
     almost every species of Counterfeit Coin into the circulation of
     the country, because it certainly has the means in its own power,
     of lessening the mischief, by issuing a new coinage, particularly
     of Halfpence, which are, now, so generally bad, and so
     profligately circulated, that scarce a good halfpenny is to be
     seen.... The vast increase, and the extensive circulation, of
     base Money, particularly of late years, ... almost exceeds
     credibility, and the dexterity, and ingenuity, of these criminal
     people have enabled them to finish the different kinds of
     counterfeit Money, in so masterly a manner, that it has become
     extremely difficult, for the common observer, to distinguish the
     base Coin, now in circulation, from the worn out Silver, from the
     Mint. And, so systematic has this nefarious traffic become, that
     the great dealers, who in most instances are the employers of the
     Coiners, execute orders for the Town, and Country, with the same
     regularity as other manufacturers in fair branches of trade.
     Scarce a waggon, or coach, departs from the metropolis, that does
     not carry boxes, and parcels, of base coin, to the camps,
     seaports, and manufacturing towns, insomuch, that the country is
     deluged with counterfeit Money. In London, regular markets, in
     various public, and private, houses, are held by the principal
     Dealers, where Hawkers, Pedlars, fraudulent Horse-dealers,
     Unlicensed Lottery Office Keepers, Gamblers at Fairs, Itinerant
     Jews, Irish Labourers, Servants of Toll Gatherers, and
     Hackney-Coach Owners, fraudulent Publicans, Market Women, Rabbit
     Sellers, Fish Cryers, Barrow Women, and many who would not be
     suspected, are regularly supplied with counterfeit Copper, and
     Silver, with the advantages of nearly 100 per cent. in their
     favour: and thus it happens, that through these various channels,
     immense quantities of base Money get into circulation, while an
     evident diminution of the Mint Coinage, is apparent to every
     common observer.... Discoveries have been recently made, of no
     less than 120 persons, in the metropolis, and the country, who
     are employed, principally, in coining, and selling, Base Money:
     and this, independent of the numerous horde of utterers, who
     chiefly support themselves by passing it at its full value.

     "It will scarcely be credited, that of these criminal people who
     have either been detected, prosecuted, or convicted, within the
     last seven years, there stand upon the register of the Solicitor
     of the Mint, no less than 608 names! and yet the evil increases
     rapidly. And when it is known, that two persons can finish from
     £200, to £300, in base silver, _in six days_, and that three
     people, within the same period will stamp the like amount, in
     Copper, and when the number of known coiners are taken into the
     calculation, the aggregate in the course of the year must be
     immense!"--(_Times, Oct. 5, 1796._)




LAW AND POLICE.


In treating the above heading, I have no wish to introduce the
"Newgate Calendar" element into this book. Let those who like such
literature, consult that work--and, doubtless, they will be rewarded
for their pains; but, in going through these old papers, much that is
curious is met with, which throws light on the manners, and customs,
of our forefathers.

Of Police, as we understand the word, there was none--and the
parochial Constables, and watchmen, who were supposed to guard the
premises of the rate payers, and to keep the peace, were veritably of
the Dogberry and Verges type--utterly useless for the detection, or
suppression, of crime, and only fit to "comprehend all vagrom man," or
lead some roysterer home.

All day long they were not; but, at night, they came out with the
bats, and owls, armed with a long staff, and a lantern, periodically
droning out the hour of the night, and the state of the weather. This
was done with the laudable intention of shewing their vigilance, but
it must equally have acted in an opposite direction, for every thief
must have had due warning of the watchman's whereabouts. They had
temporary shelters, larger than the Military Sentry box, and the wild
spirits of those days delighted to catch a watchman napping, and
overturn his box, thus temporarily incapacitating him from giving an
alarm, or following their flight. For the former purpose they used
huge rattles, smaller specimens of which were carried, for the same
purpose, by our own Metropolitan Police, until 1884.

Each parish looked after its own interests, had its own watch and
ward, and was mightily jealous of interference from another parish--an
arrangement evidently very much to the advantage of a thief. People
were always grumbling--but the state of things was never altered. Hear
what they said about it in 1788:--

     "The Decrepid old Dotards, to whose vigilance the different
     Vestries have confined their fellow Citizens, are likely to
     profit from the order of nature being reversed by the life of our
     modern nobility, who, rising at _two_, dining at _eight_, and
     paying afternoon visits at _midnight_, have superseded the
     necessity of having watchmen, and are, in fact, with their
     servants, a much better patrole than any of the Bow Street
     Justices could furnish."--(_Morning Post, April 21, 1788._)

There were amateur thief catchers like Jonathan Wild, men who would be
the companions, and confederates, of Highwaymen, Housebreakers, and
Thieves, drawing Money from them until they were sucked dry, and then
sacrifice them without an atom of remorse.

And there were the detectives of that time, the Bow Street Runners, or
Robin Red breasts as they were called, from their wearing red
waistcoats. Peter Pindar sang of them, especially of the three that
were detailed for the protection of the Royal family at the time of
the French Revolution.

  ".   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
  What a bright thought in George and Charlotte,
  Who to escape each wicked Varlet,
    And disappoint Tom Paine's disloyal crew,
  Fixed on _Macmanus_, _Townsend_, _Jealous_,
  Delightful company, delicious fellows,
    To point out, every minute, who is who!
  To hustle from before their noble graces,
  Rascals with ill looks, designing faces,
    Where treason, murder, and sedition dwell;
  To give the life of every Newgate wretch,
  To say who next the fatal cord shall stretch,
    The sweet historian of the pensive cell."

[Illustration: Seen home by the Watch.--1792.]

Townsend, was undoubtedly the sharpest of the three, but he was a
pushing, boastful fellow, and never hid his light under a bushel. He
was, however, courageous, and never heeded where he went, or what odds
were opposed to him; so that the criminal classes began to respect
him, and, at last, never thought of opposing him. He was extremely
natty in his dress, and his flaxen wig was as well known, as his short
stout figure, and his red face--

  "Of all the wigs in Brighton Town,
  The black, the gray, the red, the brown,
  So firmly glued upon the crown,
    There's none like Johnny Townsend's;
  It's silken hair, and flaxen hue,
  It is a scratch, and not a queue,
  When e'er it pops upon the view,
    Is known for Johnny Townsend's."

It was by his means, that the famous pickpocket, Barrington, was
convicted, and transported, a fact which was very much to Barrington's
advantage, for he helped to put down a mutiny on board, whilst on his
passage out, for which he was well rewarded, and, by his good conduct,
he rose from step to step, always in the Colonial police--until he
died Chief of the Constabulary in New South Wales.

The laws were then frightfully severe in their punishments, but this
severity did not act as a deterrent to crime. The punishment of death,
(and hanging was the punishment for many trivial crimes) seems to have
had no terror--for we read in the _Morning Post_, July 11th 1788, "The
number of Capital Convicts at present in Newgate is eighty-one!" Of
course, these were not all executed, some having their sentences
commuted to transportation for life. Let us take a few cases from one
Newspaper only, the _Morning Post_, September 11, 1788. It was the
Sessions at the Old Bailey, 9th September:--

     "_John Dancer_, was put to the bar, and tried before Judge Grose,
     for a burglary, and robbery, in the empty dwelling-house of
     Daniel Dancer,[15] a farmer, near Uxbridge. This offence is made
     capital by the 39th Elizabeth. The jury brought in a verdict,
     _guilty_, of the value of £5.--_Death._

          [Footnote 15: The celebrated Miser. During the last 20 years
          of his life, his house is said to have been entered, by
          thieves, no less than fourteen times--and the amount of his
          losses, is calculated at £2,500.]

     "_John Crawford_, for a burglary in the house of Francis Bias.
     The crime being fully proved.--_Guilty_--_Death_.

     "_William Johnson_, for a burglary and robbery of poultry, in the
     dwelling house of Margaret Allen, at
     Hampstead.--_Guilty_--_Death_.

     "_Thomas Jones_, for a highway robbery of a watch &c. He was
     taken in the _manier_--_i.e._ with the watch upon
     him.--_Guilty_--_Death_.

     "Several other prisoners were tried and acquitted for various
     offences, particularly one for a rape--_his crime was only_
     Seduction!"

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Monday evening, as a lady was passing along Long-Acre, she was
     jostled into a Court by a number of those abandoned wretches, who
     to the disgrace of our police and magistrates, infest every
     corner of the Metropolis, where they stripped her of her cloak,
     bonnet, and of almost everything she had on, besides grossly
     insulting her. The Public Offices of Justice are every morning
     full of these women of the town, who have been taken up for their
     disorderly behaviour. But, while the connection between them and
     the Watchmen subsists, the evil must still remain. It is an evil
     of the most serious and alarming nature, and peculiarly calls for
     the interposition of the Legislature."--(_Morning Post, Sept. 26,
     1788._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There are at this time, in Newgate, upwards of Seven Hundred
     prisoners, the greatest number ever known to be in that place of
     confinement, at the same time."--(_Morning Post, Dec. 5, 1788._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Kelly who was pilloried at Reading, brings actions against those
     who pelted him. This is a new cause of trial, but clearly a legal
     one."--(_Morning Post, Dec. 23, 1789._)

Here, they evidently "caught a Tartar." The pelting could have been no
part of the man's sentence--but what was the issue of his appeal to
law, I know not.

About the year 1790, occurs a most singular police episode, so
singular, and so comparatively unknown, that I cannot refrain from
somewhat enlarging upon it.

In the early spring of 1790, murmurs began to be heard of ladies being
attacked, and stabbed, by a monster in human form. The murmurs were
low at first, and "monster" was printed with a small "m;" but, very
shortly, they grew into a roar, and no capitals were found too large
for THE MONSTER.

Indeed, even before that, and as far back as May, 1788, a Mrs. Smith
had been stabbed in the upper part of her thigh by a man in Fleet
Street, and was even followed by him to a house in Johnson's Court, to
which she was going, and watched by him until she was let in. In May,
1789, a Mrs. Godfrey was similarly stabbed in Boswell Court, Fleet
Street; and another lady was left wounded at her door. In March, 1790,
a Mrs. Blaney, of Bury Street, was stabbed at her door after she had
knocked. Dr. Smith, seeing an account of this outrage in a newspaper,
inserted a notice in the _Morning Herald_, and that journal, having
made some severe remarks on the matter, public opinion began to be
awakened, and numerous letters were written, on the subject, to the
newspapers of the day. The thing began to be talked of in the higher
circles. A young lady named Porter had been stabbed whilst, in the
company of her sisters, returning from the Drawing Room at St.
James's, on the 18th of January, the Queen's Birthday; and since that
time, several people had been wounded by this miscreant, who,
fortunately, always failed in doing serious injury to his victims.

Mr. John Julius Angerstein (whose name will ever be associated with
the commencement of our National Gallery) was very active, and
inaugurated a subscription at Lloyd's, to which the guineas flowed
merrily, for the capture, and conviction of the "Monster." The police
began to bestir themselves, and they, too, issued placards. One will
serve as a type of all:--

                                 "Public Office, Bow Street,
                                 _Thursday, April 29, 1790_.

     "One Hundred Pounds Reward.

     "Several ladies having, of late, been inhumanly cut, and maimed,
     by a person answering the following description, whoever will
     apprehend him, or give such information to Sir Sampson Wright, at
     the above office, as may be the means of his being apprehended,
     shall immediately upon his committal to prison, receive fifty
     pounds from Mr. Angerstein of Pall Mall, and the further sum of
     fifty pounds upon his conviction. _N.B._--He appears to be about
     thirty years of age, of a middle size, rather thin make, a little
     pockmarked, of a pale complexion, large nose; light brown hair,
     tied in a queue, cut short and frizzed low at the sides; is
     sometimes dressed in black, and sometimes in a shabby blue coat;
     sometimes wears straw-coloured breeches, with half boots, laced
     up before: sometimes wears a cocked hat, and at other times a
     round hat, with a very high top, and generally carries a Wangee
     cane in his hand.

     "All servants are recommended to take notice that if any man has
     stayed at home without apparent cause, within these few days,
     during the daylight. All washerwomen and servants should take
     notice of any blood on a man's handkerchief, or linen, as the
     wretch generally fetches blood when he strikes. All servants
     should examine if any man carries sharp weapons about him, and if
     there is any blood thereon, particularly tucks; and maid-servants
     are to be told that a tuck is generally at the head of a stick,
     which comes out by a sudden jerk. All cutlers are desired to
     watch if any man answering the above description is desirous of
     having his weapon of attack very sharp."

[Illustration: The MONSTER cutting a lady.--1790.]

All baker's men were asked to give notice at every house they called
at, of the above reward, and Mr. Angerstein promised twenty pounds to
any man by whose instrumentality the Monster was discovered.

Additional publicity was, moreover, given by other means. The _Morning
Herald_ of April 27th says:

"A new musical piece was produced last night at Astley's called The
Monster, and being brought forward at a time when the attention of all
London was engaged in discovering him, cannot fail of producing full
houses. Astley seems to have taken up the matter very seriously, as
the piece abounds with much satire against the Monster. The songs also
are well adapted: the chorus of one concluding as follows,

  'When the Monster is taken in the fact
  We'll have him tried by the Coventry Act,[16]
                The Black Act
                The Coventry Act,'

produced unbounded applause. This piece will certainly be a good
acquisition to Astley, who is said to be the author."

          [Footnote 16: This Act, against cutting and maiming, owed
          its name to Sir John Coventry, who, in Charles the Second's
          time, was favourable to a motion, in the House of Commons,
          to impose a tax on play-houses, which was opposed by the
          Court. Sir John Birkenhead having remarked that the players
          were the King's servants, and a part of his pleasure, Sir J.
          Coventry asked "Whether the King's pleasure lie among the
          men, or the women, that acted?" This was neither forgotten
          nor forgiven, and Sir John was set upon whilst walking home,
          by some ruffians. He defended himself desperately, and
          wounded some of his assailants, but was overpowered, and his
          nose slit to the bone, "for reflecting on the King." This
          outrage excited great indignation at the time.]

One lady (Mrs. R. Walpole) was fortunate enough to escape being
wounded, owing to her having an apple in her pocket: an incident which
gave rise to some poetic effusions:

  "Eve, for an apple, lost immortal life:
  From you an apple turn'd the Monster's knife!
  Can greater proof, since Eve, be given
      Of diabolic strife,
          Or interposing Heaven?"

  "The apple was, in days of yore,
  An Agent to the Devil,
  When Eve was tempted to explore
  The sense of good and evil;
  But present chronicles can give
  An instance quite uncommon,
  How that which ruined Mother Eve
  Hath saved a Modern Woman."

The Monster was even made a party to Anti-slavery agitation, for at
the Westminster Forum in Panton Street, Haymarket, "by desire of
several ladies," was debated the question: "Which is the greater
disgrace to humanity, the ruffian who drags the female African from
her family, her kindred, and her native country, or the Monster who
has lately wounded, or terrified, many ladies in this metropolis?" The
result of this discussion is not handed down to posterity.

Still the Monster kept steadily at his work, and almost every day
brought its tale of some woman being stabbed: and, one being injured
in St. Pancras Parish, a meeting of the inhabitants was called at the
Percy Coffee House, on May 7th, and an association was formed "to
nightly patrol the streets of the south division of Saint Pancras,
from half-an-hour before sunset, till eleven at night, for the public
safety, and especially to guard that sex which a Monster, or Monsters,
in opposition to the dictates of nature, and humanity, have dared to
assault, and wound, with wanton, and savage, cruelty."

The idea that these outrages were not done single-handed, was on the
increase, and the indefatigable Mr. Angerstein again issued a placard,
and "informs the public, that from information he has received of the
person who, since Friday last, has assaulted and wounded several
women, there is great reason to fear that more than one of these
wretches infests the streets: it is therefore thought necessary to
give the following description of one, who, within this week, has
committed many acts of cruelty upon women," and gives four
descriptions of the man's dress, which would lead to the inference
that the Monster was in possession of a very extensive wardrobe.

People were now gradually getting into a state of ferment, and the
Monster was the engrossing topic of public interest. Of course, then
as now, the wrong people were arrested occasionally. One "Walter Hill,
was brought before the Magistrate at Litchfield Street on suspicion of
being one of the wretches who have cut several women; he was
apprehended in Windmill Street, Tottenham Court Road, near the place
where two women were cut, though Miss Porter, and several other
ladies, declared the prisoner was not the person who wounded them."
Nothing could be proved against him, and, ultimately, he was
discharged.

Even the light-fingered fraternity entered into the spirit of the
times, for _The World_ of May 11th has--"Public Office, Bow St.,
before Sir Sampson Wright. Yesterday evening, about half after seven
o'clock, a gentleman of family and fortune, was surrounded in Holborn
by a number of pickpockets, who, after hustling him, and robbing him
of his watch, money, and hat, called out: 'That is the Monster, he has
just cut a woman.' A vast number of people immediately pursued the
gentleman, some calling 'The Monster!' others, 'Stop thief,' till at
length he was knocked down, and surrounded by near a thousand people,
by whom he was very ill-treated, and, probably, would not have escaped
with life, had he not been, by some gentleman, taken into Gray's Inn
Coffee House; from whence he was conveyed to the Brown Bear, in Bow
Street, in a hackney-coach; where the mob were so exasperated that
they broke the windows of the house, and, could they have got at him,
would, no doubt, have massacred him: by stratagem he was, at nine
o'clock, brought to this office. When the above facts appeared, Sir
Sampson Wright lamented that it was not in his power to punish the
perpetrators of this daring, and alarming, assault, but did all he
could, by giving that gentleman his protection until the mob
dispersed."

Accounts of mock assaults were written to the papers, one of them
extremely circumstantial, telling how a courageous lady drew a pistol
"from her pocket and discharged it into the wretch's neck, immediately
under the ear, who instantly left her, uttering the most dreadful
imprecations." This, it is needless to say, was denied, and exposed
next morning.

Imposture, of course, took advantage of such a golden opportunity, and
we find that "the account which appeared in all the newspapers of Miss
B. of Marylebone Street, having been twice wounded by the Monster,
proves to be a fabrication, for the purpose of exciting compassion,
and money, and has, in some degree, answered the purpose. The above
discovery has been made, by an investigation of this business, by the
Select Vestry of Marylebone Parish. This is a new kind of Monster!"

The _Oracle_ of May 17th tells the following little story:--"Tuesday,
about nine o'clock, as Mr. Heather was crossing Tower Hill, he
observed a well-dressed woman upon the ground: when he went to her,
she said a very tall man had just wounded her with some sharp
instrument, and begged his assistance to get to the Minories to a
coach, which he readily complied with, upon observing blood in several
places upon her gown and apron. However, the coach had not been gone
ten minutes, before he found she had picked his pocket of his watch,
and about three guineas."

Although there was now a cessation of real attacks by the Monster, the
public feeling rose to very fever height. As one newspaper remarked:
"The Monster is now a mischief of more than common magnitude. Inhuman
himself, the villainy is visited upon all who are of the same sex:
alike the source of apprehension, terror, and flight. It is really
distressing to walk our streets towards evening. Every woman we meet
regards us with distrust, shrinks sidling from our touch, and expects
a poignard to pierce what gallantry, and manhood, consider as sacred.
There must be a very criminal supineness somewhere, or these execrable
villains would, with greater speed, expiate with their lives, the
insulted humanity of being."

As an example of the pitch to which the excitement was wrought, the
following case may be taken. A man met a girl, and went with her into
a public-house. They sat down, and he showed her an artificial
bouquet, or nosegay, as it was then called, which he had in his hand,
and begged her to accept it. The girl, in taking hold of it, felt
something prick her, and it made her hand bleed. She went away, and
told the story to some of her friends, who immediately insisted that
it must be the Monster, and that a dagger was certainly concealed in
the nosegay. The man was in consequence arrested, and kept all night
in the watch-house. On enquiry in the morning, it was found that the
girl's hand had only been pricked by the wire used to bind the flowers
together, and the poor man was, of course, discharged.

But Nemesis was at hand. One of his victims--that Miss Porter, who was
stabbed after the Drawing Room, on the Queen's birthday--was walking
with Mr. John Coleman, in St. James's Park, on Sunday, June 13th, and
the Monster passed her. She at once recognised him, and, her agitation
being remarked by Mr. Coleman, she said, "There is the wretch who
wounded me." Mr. Coleman left her in charge of her friends, and
followed the man, who walked very fast--evidently feeling he had been
noticed, and endeavoured to dodge about from Spring Gardens, to
Admiralty Passage, back again to Spring Gardens, and up Cockspur
Street, to Pall Mall: thence to St. James's Street, and Bolton Street,
where he knocked at the door of a house, and was let in. He stayed
there about five minutes, and then went to Piccadilly, and St. James's
Street, where he knocked at another house, and asked the servant some
question. Leaving there, he went to Bond Street, Mr. Coleman
endeavouring to insult him, by walking before and behind him, and
staring him in the face. He then went to Oxford Street--then called
Oxford Road--and Vere Street, where he knocked at an empty house.
Then Mr. Coleman spoke to him, and asked him what was the use of
knocking so violently at a house palpably empty; and he replied that
he knew the people of the house, named Pearce, and knocked again for
three or four minutes. He then crossed to South Molton Street, knocked
at a house, and was admitted. Mr. Coleman asked the master of the
house, Mr. Smith, for information as to the man, but he refused to
give any, unless some reason was assigned. Mr. Coleman replied that
the other had insulted some ladies under his protection, and that he
demanded satisfaction. The Monster offered to meet him at any
coffee-house, and gave his address as Fifty-two Jermyn Street. Mr.
Coleman then let him go, but upon second thoughts hurried back, and
again met him in St. James's Street; and looking at him, told him he
did not think he was what he described himself, and asked him to come
with him to Mr. Porter's house, which was not far off. He consented,
and on seeing him, two of the Miss Porters immediately fainted, but
upon recovery unhesitatingly declared him to be "the wretch." He
turned to Mr. Coleman and asked: "Do the ladies suspect me to be the
person advertised? Am I suspected?"

He was given into custody, and on the 15th of June, the newspapers
gave full accounts of his capture and examination.

He proved to be a native of Wales, named Renwick (or Rhynwick)
Williams, aged about twenty-three, who was sent young to London, where
he was bound apprentice to Sir John Gallini, with a view to his
becoming a dancer on the stage. A misunderstanding, as to the
disappearance of a watch, severed this connection, and he then led a
very loose life. For some little time, about two months, he was a
lawyer's clerk, but this employment being only temporary, he was
reduced to difficulties, until he met with Mr. Aimable Michell, of
Dover Street, who taught him artificial-flower making, and with whom
he remained until his arrest.

He was dressed very respectably, in a blue coat, lined, and edged,
with buff, buff waistcoat, and black satin breeches.

He was fully identified by the Misses Porter, Miss Frost, Miss
Baughan, and Mrs. Franklin, whilst numerous ladies who had been
wounded could not identify him. He was of course, remanded. Royalty,
in the person of the Duke of Cumberland (afterwards King of Hanover),
was present at his examination, and great difficulty was experienced
in preserving the prisoner from the fury of the exasperated mob.

On the 16th of June he was again brought up, was identified by two
more ladies, and confronted with others, who could not be sure he was
the man who had wounded them. The Dukes of York, and Cumberland, and
Prince William of Gloucester, besides several peers, were present.

He was brought before the magistrates once more, when another lady
identified him, and he was committed for trial.

[Illustration: Renwick Williams.--1790.]

Owing to the novelty of the crime, great difficulty was experienced as
to his indictment, but it was at last settled that he should be tried
under the statute 6th Geo. I. c. 23, s. 11, which made it felony,
punishable with transportation, for seven years, to assault any person
in the public streets, with intent to tear, spoil, cut, burn, or
deface, the garments, or clothes, of such person, or persons, provided
the act be done in pursuance of such intention.

On Thursday, the 8th of July, Williams was tried at the Old Bailey,
before Mr. Justice Buller, charged with making an assault upon Ann
Frost, spinster, on the 9th of November last, in Jermyn Street, St.
James's, and wickedly, wilfully, and maliciously, tearing, and
spoiling, her garments, to wit, the gown, petticoats, and shift, of
the said Ann, against the statute in that case provided.

He was also indicted for the commission of a similar offence in
Holborn, on the 5th of May, on Sarah, the wife of John Davis. The same
on Sarah, the wife of John Godfrey, on the 13th of May, in St.
Marylebone. The 26th of September, on Mary Forster, in Maxwell Street.
The 6th of December, on Elizabeth Baughan, in Parliament Street. For a
like act, on the same day, in the same street, on Frances Baughan. For
a like act, on Ann Porter, on the 18th of January, in St. James's
Street.

He pleaded not guilty, and was defended by counsel. The case of Miss
Porter was then gone into, and the evidence, as already detailed, was
adduced. For the defence, he called his master, Mr. Michell, who swore
that he was at work till twelve, on the night of the 18th of January,
and did not quit his house till after supper at half-past twelve,
which was also substantiated by the witness of his sister, Miss
Michell, Catherine, and Molly Harmond, and two of the workwomen,
besides a customer: and ten witnesses were called as to character. The
judge summed up very favourably for the prisoner, but the jury,
without hesitation, found him guilty. The judge said, as this was a
new case, and he had some doubts as to the indictment, he would
respite judgment until he had laid the case before the twelve judges.
So this, and the other indictments, were put off until the December
Sessions.

There were many accounts of the trial, and numerous portraits were
published of Williams, who was by no means bad-looking, thin and pale,
with powdered hair "en queue."

The caricaturists took the matter up, and treated the matter as a
joke, recommending ladies to have copper petticoats, &c.

But the most awful picture is that of "The Monster going to take his
afternoon luncheon," where he is depicted as a terrible being about to
devour a pretty girl--but the caricaturist shows us, kindly, "the
Monster disappointed of his afternoon luncheon," in which engraving,
he has a double shot--one at the somewhat delicate subject of the
"dress improver" of the day, and the other, how this fashion might be
utilised to baffle the Monster of his intended meal.

There was the usual newspaper correspondents' wrangle, in which, of
course, it was unpopular to advance any argument in favour of the
Monster. Indeed, _The World_, of October 16th, says: "Writing a
defence of the Monster carries with it more serious consequences than
people are at first aware of, because it would appear as if publishing
accounts, in the newspapers, or otherwise, could really justify
atrocious acts. As Junius has said: 'The people at large are never
mistaken in their sentiments, and, if they have formed an opinion,
there is no taking them out of it by misrepresentation.'" That there
was an opinion in his favour is not only evidenced by this, but at the
City Debates, Capel Court, Bartholomew Lane, the question was debated
on July 12: "Did the late extraordinary conduct ascribed to Renwick
Williams (commonly called the Monster) originate in an unfortunate
insanity, a diabolical inclination to injure the fair part of the
creation, or the groundless apprehension of some mistaken females?"

[Illustration: Protection from the MONSTER.]

But the man kept up the feeling against him, by his own conduct, and
could not be quiet in prison. _The Oracle_, of August the 20th, has
the following account of "The Monster's Ball":--"The depravity of the
times was manifested last week, in an eminent degree, in Newgate. The
Monster sent cards of invitation to about twenty couple, among whom
were some of his alibi friends, his brother, sisters, several of the
prisoners, and others, whom we shall take a future opportunity to
notice.

"At four o'clock the party sat to tea; this being over, two violins
struck up, accompanied by a flute, and the company proceeded to
exercise their limbs. In the merry dance, the cuts, and entrechats, of
the Monster were much admired, and his adroitness in that amusement
must be interesting, from the school in which he acquired this branch
of his accomplishments.

"About eight o'clock the company partook of a cold supper, and a
variety of wines, such as would not discredit the most sumptuous gala,
and about nine o'clock departed, that being the usual hour for
locking the doors of the prison."

Williams gradually faded away from public notice until early in
November, when eleven of the judges met in Serjeants' Inn Hall, and
consulted on his case, which had been reserved. The questions were:
First, whether his having an intention to cut the person of Miss
Porter, and, in carrying that intention into execution, cutting the
garments of that lady, is an offence within the statute of 6th Geo. I.
c. 23, s. 11, on which he was convicted; the jury having, in their
verdict, found that in cutting her person he had thereby an intention
to cut her garments? Secondly, whether the statute being in the
conjunctive, "that if any person shall assault with an intent to cut
the garment of such person, then the offender shall be guilty of
felony," and the indictment, in stating the intention, not having
connected it with the act by inserting the words that he "then and
there" did cut her garment, could be supported in point of form?

Nine out of the eleven judges were of opinion that the offence,
notwithstanding the finding of the jury, was not within the statute,
and that the indictment was bad in point of law.

This decision reduced the Monster's crime to a misdemeanour.

On Monday, December 13th, he was brought to trial at the Sessions
House, Clerkenwell Green, and, as a proof of the interest it created,
even the names of the jury are recorded. The trial began at ten, A.M.,
and was inaugurated by the prisoner reading a paper declaring his
innocence. He was indicted for assaulting Miss Porter, with intent to
kill, and murder her: there was a second count which stated, that he,
"holding a knife in his right hand, did wilfully give the said Ann
Porter a dreadful wound, of great length and depth on the right thigh
and hip; to wit, of the length of nine inches, and the depth of four."
A third count charged him with a common assault. The evidence was
similar to that in the former trial, and, after a trial, lasting
thirteen hours, he was found guilty.

He was afterwards found guilty of other assaults, and was finally
sentenced to two years' imprisonment in Newgate, for each assault on
Miss Porter, Elizabeth Davis, and Miss E. Baughan, and at the end of
the six years, he was to find bail for good behaviour for seven years,
himself in the sum of two hundred pounds, and two sureties in one
hundred pounds each.

What finally became of him is not known. Mr. Angerstein offered the
reward to Miss Porter, as it was by her instrumentality that the
Monster was captured, but she refused it.

The recollection of _the Monster_, did not quickly fade away, for we
read in the _Times_, 20 Dec. 1799, "Another new _Monster_ on
Wednesday, made his appearance in town. His passion is for _biting_
the Ladies' _toes_ and _finger ends_. They say his name is _Frost_."

       *       *       *       *       *

Food riots, the natural outcome of an almost starving and ignorant
population were rife; but, in the following paragraph, there is a
curious allusion, that _the grain was intended to be shipped to
France_, with which nation we were then at war.

     "Several towns in Cornwall were last week visited by large bodies
     of Miners, from the different works, in search of concealed corn,
     which they insist upon is intended for exportation to France. At
     Wadebridge, they found about 25,000 bushels in store, which they
     obliged the Owners to sell at reduced prices. At Looe upwards of
     6000 bushels of grain were stopped by them from being shipped,
     but we do not hear of their committing any other outrage. Part of
     the first regiment of dragoons is gone from Devonshire, to assist
     the magistrates in restoring peace."--(_Times, Feb. 6, 1793._)

Highway robberies were of daily occurrence, so much so, that they are
not worth chronicling, unless some special circumstance occurs in
connection with them.

     "The pickpockets are all turned highwaymen. Thus far the
     metropolis has been delivered from these free-booters: and the
     relief is certainly owing to the new Police Bill."--(_Times,
     March 9, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At Oxford, a person was convicted of having robbed the Worcester
     and Oxford Coach, near Woodstock, of a portmanteau, and this
     peculiar circumstance attended it:--The man committed the
     offence, was taken, indicted, tried, and convicted, within
     _twelve_ hours after the commission of the crime. He was indicted
     for petty larceny only."--(_Times, March 28, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Mr. Burdon, the Member for the County of Durham, had 25,000
     guineas in his chaise when he was stopped, the other evening by
     footpads, who robbed him of 25 guineas only. Mr. Burdon was
     carrying down this sum, for the relief of the Durham
     Bank."--(_Times, April 26, 1793._)

A shocking trade had sprung up, which was not long in developing. As
Science grew, so was a knowledge of Anatomy becoming of more vital
importance to the medical profession--but subjects for operation were
scarce. True, those malefactors who were hanged, and had no friends,
were given over to the Surgeons for dissection, but this means of
supply, fell far short of the demand--which, however, was met, by the
ghastly device of robbing the grave-yards of their newly buried dead.
Here are some contemporary records of the doings of these ghouls:--

     "Friday, a gang of persons, called _Resurrection men_, were
     apprehended between two, and three, o'clock in the morning, near
     the Churchyard at Hampstead; they had dug up the body of a Mr.
     John Lloyd, who had been buried the day before, put it into a
     sack, and a hackney-coach was waiting to receive it; but, by the
     vigilance, and resolution, of the watchmen, they lost their prey;
     for, having stopt the coach, they found the body in it, and two
     men, whose names are Tom Paine, and Peter Mackintosh, together
     with their shovels, and tools, for opening the coffin. They were
     both carried before Master Montague, together with John Peach,
     the driver of the Coach, and were committed to gaol upon the
     fullest evidence. There were two others of the party, who made
     their escape. One of them had the appearance of a Gentleman, and
     is supposed to be a surgeon."--(_Times, March 15, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Monday evening, a set of Resurrectionists, were apprehended
     at a house near the Turnpike, Mile end. That morning, a coach was
     observed to stop at this house, and an ill looking man came out
     of it with a sack; containing as it was supposed, a body, which
     he carried into the house, and returned immediately with a large
     hamper:--they then drove off to a neighbouring public-house,
     when, after a short stay, they took up some others, and were
     traced to the Launch, at Deptford. In the meantime, the parish
     officers were informed of the circumstance. About six in the
     evening, the coach again returned with a similar lading, which
     was deposited in the house. Some constables, accompanied by a
     number of people, surrounded the house, and forcing an entrance,
     they found two men, and a woman, drinking tea on a bench, at one
     end of which lay the bodies of two children. They were secured:
     and, on entering an adjoining room, the bodies of six adults were
     discovered, unmutilated; besides which, the floor was strewed
     with limbs, in a state too shocking for public
     description."--(_Times, March 20, 1794._)

     "A very particular account has been sent to this Paper, of the
     late shocking discovery of dead bodies at Mile-End: but we deem
     it unfit for publication, as the circumstances are too horrid to
     meet the public eye. Every room in the house was a scene of the
     most shocking brutality, and it is supposed there were upwards of
     100 bodies, some whole, others mangled. The remains found at this
     house have since been removed to Bethnal Green church-yard, for a
     second interment. We most sincerely hope that his Grace the
     Archbishop of Canterbury will move for a bill in Parliament,
     making it _death_ to rob a church yard."--(_Times, March 22,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     (Adv.) "Robberies in Churchyards and Burial Grounds.

     "Some persons having been discovered, on the evening of the 8th
     February last, conveying dead Bodies in Sacks, from the
     Burial-Ground belonging to the Parish of St. Mary, Lambeth, and
     who, upon the alarm being raised, made their escape; a reward of
     One hundred Pounds, for apprehending them, was immediately
     offered by the Churchwardens, to be paid upon their conviction:
     and the first opportunity was taken of assembling the
     Parishioners in Vestry, in order to consider by what means they
     might secure the offenders, bring them to punishment, and
     prevent, in future, such depredations. A Committee was
     accordingly appointed for this purpose, and discoveries of
     similar robberies in Church-yards, and Burial-grounds, in, and
     near, this Metropolis, have been made, the recital of which,
     together with an account of the horrid traffic in which many have
     been long engaged, with impunity, cannot fail to excite the
     indignation of the Public, and which it is intended, in a short
     time, to give them, taken from Affidavits made before
     Magistrates, and from other evidence procured on this melancholy
     occasion. It will be needless to say, that the Relatives, and
     Friends, of those who have been lately buried there, before this
     discovery, have suffered great anguish of mind, and it is not
     doubted but that all will concur in adopting measures, which may
     effectually check such abominable practices. For this desirable
     end, an application to Parliament, early in the next Session, is
     deemed highly necessary, as, at present, the punishment is found
     to be by no means sufficient to prevent the crime. The Parishes
     therefore, within the Bills of Mortality, and near London, will,
     it is hoped, approve of such application, and it is intended that
     a Circular Letter shall be sent to them, to invite them to join
     in it. In the meantime, the Committee of the Parish of Saint
     Mary, Lambeth, will be glad to receive any communications from
     any other Parishes, on this subject, under cover, directed to
     Thomas Swabey, Vestry Clerk, Lambeth."--(_Times, April 21,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Early on Tuesday Morning, some suspicion being entertained that
     the Pesthouse burial-ground, in Old-Street-Road, had been
     frequently violated, the parish watchmen were ordered to keep a
     good look out, when a hackney coach was observed, waiting near
     the spot. Upon the watchman's approaching it, he was assaulted,
     and beaten, by three men, who then made off: but afterwards,
     springing his rattle, the assistants took the coachman into
     custody, who had three sacks in his coach, two of them containing
     the body of a man each, and the other, three children. Several
     other bodies, which had been dug up for the purpose of carrying
     away, were found under the wall of the burying-ground: and, it is
     generally believed, that almost all the bodies deposited therein,
     for 5 weeks past, have been stolen, which, upon an average, must
     have been 15 per week. The hackney-coachman, who owned he was to
     have had ten guineas for his night's fare, was committed to the
     New Prison, Clerkenwell. This fellow, it should seem, was
     hardened to his business: for, though put into the cage with the
     bodies he was carrying off, he slept so sound, that it was with
     some difficulty he was awakened by the visit of a _brother-whip_,
     previous to his going before a Magistrate."--(_Times, Dec, 23,
     1796._)

Sentence of death was passed on Criminals for offences we should now
think totally inadequate to that punishment--but although sentenced,
those convicted of the lighter offences--were almost all respited, and
transported for life.

     "At the Assizes for York and County, the following prisoners
     received sentence of death, viz., T. Jewitt, for stealing four
     heifers: Saml. Bathurst, for privately stealing in a shop; Wm.
     Atkinson, and Hannah Hobson, for riotously assembling and pulling
     down the house of John Cooper, of Whitby: John Holt and Richard
     Watson, for house breaking, and three others for
     sheep-stealing."--(_Times, March 30, 1793._)

     "A petition from Wm. Brunskill, (commonly called _Jack Ketch_)
     was presented to the Court of Aldermen, stating that he was the
     public executioner, and, on that account, could not get any other
     employment: that he was obliged to keep an assistant, though his
     allowance was so small, and his income so trifling, as to be
     insufficient to maintain himself, and family, and praying
     relief.--The Court referred the same to the Sheriffs."--(_Times,
     Jan. 30, 1794._)

The next paragraph, which is very brief, tells its own story.

     "There is now a man confined for debt in Newgate, who has been a
     prisoner there, over fifteen years, for a debt, the original sum
     of which does not exceed forty-five shillings."--(_Times, April
     25, 1793._)

In Dec. 1794, and Jan. 1795, there was a terrible frost--and, in the
latter month, we hear that seven men, attempting to pass over the ice,
to a Collier, by Ratcliffe Highway--were drowned--and how--two days
afterwards--two watchmen were frozen to death at Bloomsbury. Hard
indeed must have been the lot of the poor debtors, and we may fancy
the anxious scrutiny of the box, which the debtor whose turn it was,
would rattle outside the bars of Ludgate, making the while his
monotonous, and melancholy, whine, "Pity the poor debtors; pity the
poor debtors." Some hearts were softened towards them, and they were
sensibly grateful for such seasonable assistance.

     "Advt.--The unfortunate DEBTORS in LUDGATE PRISON beg leave, thus
     publicly, to return their grateful Thanks to LADY TAYLOR, of
     Spring Gardens, for her munificent Benefaction of 149 lbs. of
     Beef, 21 half Peck Loaves, 21 sacks of Coals, and 66 lbs. of
     Cheese, each Article being of the best quality.

     "At the same time, they entreat the LORD MAYOR to accept their
     unfeigned Thanks, for his kind present of a Guinea, which was
     equally divided among the unfortunate Debtors.

     "_N.B._ The smallest Benefaction from their fellow Citizens and
     other liberal minded persons, will at all times be thankfully
     received, particularly at this inclement season of the
     year."--(_Times, Dec. 29, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The unfortunate DEBTORS, in Ludgate Prison, beg leave to return
     their grateful Thanks, to the Right Hon. the LORD MAYOR, for 448
     lbs. of Beef and Mutton of the best sort, which he has sent them
     since the 10th day of Nov., also for two Chaldron, and an half,
     of Coals sent yesterday."--(_Times, Jan. 1, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "As the Debtor and Creditor Bill comes on to-morrow, it is
     recommended to its noble framer, to try the pulse of the Law
     Lords, by introducing a clause which shall interdict the Marshal
     of the King's Bench, and the Warden of the Fleet, from taking a
     shilling per week from each debtor for his bed, unless as the
     very foundation, and cause of this fee originally was, that the
     Keeper of the Prison furnishes the Debtor with furniture to the
     amount of £30. The Keepers have very handsome salaries, and
     therefore, there should be no exactions from the prisoners.
     Indeed the nature of their imprisonment interdicts such a
     practice, for how is the insolvent man to find money? ex-nihilo,
     nihil fit."--(_Times, May 8, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Were any one Lord in the House of Peers to move that the Royal
     Assent to Acts of Parliament should be given in _plain English_,
     and not in old _Norman French_, the House would unanimously adopt
     the idea of banishing, in future, the _barbarous_ language of
     that Country."--(_Times, May 10, 1793._)

     "A curious matter was heard yesterday before the Borough Police,
     respecting the wife of a gentleman at Sheerness, who had eloped
     with a black servant. They were pursued to the Nags Head in the
     Borough on Sunday, where _Blackey_ fired a pistol at his
     pursuers, for which he was taken up and committed. The Lady had
     two children by her husband. The matter, we understand is _made
     up_."--(_Times, Feb. 11, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The manner in which the _Black_ business was settled, in the
     Borough, was this:--The husband took her two children, and all
     the property he found in the coach, desired his wife to go where
     she pleased, (after she said she'd live with no one but the
     Black) and _Mungo_ was taken by a press gang, and put on board
     the tender."--(_Times, Feb. 12, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Monday last two Bailiff's followers made a seizure for rent at a
     house in Kingswood, near Bristol: an alarm being given, they were
     surrounded by a number of colliers, who conveyed them to a
     neighbouring coal-pit, and let them down, where they were
     suffered to remain till about two the next morning, when they
     were had up, and, each having a glass of gin, and some
     gingerbread, given him, were immersed again into the dreary
     bowels of the earth, where they were confined, in all, near
     twenty four hours. On being released they were made to pay a fine
     of 6s. 8d. each, for their lodging, and take an oath never to
     trouble, or molest, any of them again."--(_Times, April 25,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The friends of an apprentice to a stocking-weaver, at Lambeth,
     brought the lad to this office (Public Office, Bow St.) to shew
     one of the modes of punishment adopted by the master, when the
     boys committed any fault. It consisted of an iron collar,
     fastened round the neck, by a padlock. The lad said that he had
     worn it for above a month, and that he understood it was his
     master's intention he should wear it till he was out of his time.
     The master living in the county of Surrey, Mr Bond could not
     interfere in the business, but advised the parties to go to
     Union-Hall, in the Borough. The master of the apprentice alluded
     to, we understand, has got between 60 and 70 boys, most of whom
     he has had from the different workhouses in the county of
     Surrey."--(_Times, Aug. 27, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Owing to the high price of victualling, the demand for shipping
     and risque of capture, or the price of insurance, the contract
     for conveying the last convicts from Great Britain, and Ireland,
     to Botany Bay, was £80 per man; and the expence exceeding all the
     good that could arise to either country, from the banishment, or
     the evil that could arise from the continuance in either country,
     of the miscreants.

     "It is a known fact, that so far are the miscreants, who usually
     come under sentence of transportation, from considering it a
     punishment, that they laugh at the joke, and consider it a very
     great benefit.--Adventurous spirits like those, averse to all
     manner of industry, insensible to ignominy, and totally
     unconscious of any such feelings as the _amor patriæ_, delight in
     nothing more, than shifting the scene, and being conveyed to a
     distant country, from that in which they have no hope of
     existing, but at the perpetual risk of the gallows.

     "It is more than probable that severe flagellation, such as
     military codes prescribe, would prove infinitely more formidable
     in detering villainy: and it is, at least, worth the experiment
     of a statute, which costs nothing, to try whether the penalty of
     500, or 1000 lashes, which would not cost the country one
     shilling, would not prove a stronger barrier against larcenies,
     and clergyable felonies, than transportation to Botany Bay, at
     the enormous expense of £60 or 80 per man, which operates in
     reality as a heavy penalty on the Republic of honest men, and a
     bounty on villainy. Besides, have we not copper mines, coal
     mines, canals, and other such places of employment, at home, for
     those criminals, which, at present, alienate the husbandmen, and
     honest labourers of the country, from the business of
     agriculture. The labour of criminals, in this way, would prove a
     benefit to the country, and some compensation to the State, their
     crimes had injured."--(_Times, Sept. 9, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The _Calamities of War_. Amongst the distresses it has
     occasioned, it is a lamentable fact, that _five Attornies_ have
     been deprived of an honest livelihood, and have actually entered
     as foremast men, on board a frigate in the Thames."--(_Times,
     Nov. 2, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Lord Chancellor was occupied on Friday, and Saturday, with
     hearing an important cause. Earl Pomfret _v._ Sir Ch. Turner.

     "It respects a very valuable lead mine, in the vale of
     Arkinghall, Yorkshire. Such is the expedition of our laws, that
     this cause has lasted _only ninety three years_, being first
     instituted in the year 1703!!!"--(_Times, Apr. 12, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The King _v._ Middleton.

     "The defendant was convicted of enticing a number of Artificers
     from this country, to go to Kentucky in America; a rule was
     afterwards obtained, to shew cause why the judgment should not be
     arrested, for reasons, which appeared insufficient to the Court.
     That Rule therefore, was discharged, and the Defendant received
     judgment according to the Statute, that is, he was ordered to
     _pay a fine of £500, and to be confined in Newgate for the space
     of one year_."--(_Times, June 10, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Saturday _John Paviour_ (one of these persons called _Bullock
     Hunters_) was tried at the Old Bailey--for driving a bullock out
     of Smithfield Market, early on the morning of the 23rd May last
     and was found guilty--DEATH. It is hoped therefore, that this
     prosecution will greatly check, if not wholly put an end to that
     pernicious practice, by which not only the Property, but the
     lives of the Public are so much endangered, in and about this
     metropolis."--(_Times, June 28, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The trial which was to have come on at the Assizes in York,
     concerning estates in Cleveland, for which a Special Jury was to
     be summoned, of _four Knights, and their twelve Esquires, girt
     with swords_, is deferred until next Assizes."--(_Times, July 27,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday, a Jew was convicted at the Public Office Bow Street,
     for selling a hat, in the street, without a stamped lining,
     contrary to the late Act of Parliament, and was sentenced to be
     imprisoned for two months, in the House of Correction. Hatters
     selling Hats, without a stamped lining, are liable to the penalty
     of £10. In the above case, imprisonment is the only mode of
     punishment."--(_Times, Sept. 3, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Certainly the number of Lawyers, which is _only_ computed to be
     20,000 in Great Britain, is not so much their fault, as our own.
     We can neither marry, nor die, without them: but then there is no
     living for them."--(_Times, Sept. 28, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The number of Attornies posted up for admission next term,
     outside the Court of King's Bench, are _eighty-two_. Surely some
     stop should be put to this growing evil, for there is not a
     doubt, but that, with an increase of Attornies, must consequently
     follow an increase of litigation. For where the numbers surpass
     all reasonable bounds, they will have recourse to the most
     desperate means to excite business."--(_Times, Jan. 31, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The convict who was lately executed at Leicester, and who
     adopted the singular mode of travelling, in a post chaise, to the
     place of execution, was no less remarkable for his crimes, than a
     copious fund of low humour. He got the following notice put up in
     the most frequented houses in the town, 'Wanted an agreeable
     companion, in a post chaise, to go a journey of _considerable_
     length, and upon _equal_ terms. Enquire for particulars at the
     Castle.' It is almost superfluous to mention that upon the
     _terms_ being made known, the gentleman could not find a
     partner."--(_Times, Sept. 8, 1797._)

The following is a somewhat curious Police Case (_Times_, Jan. 17,
1798): "Robert Richards, and William Packer, were indicted on a charge
of assaulting Ryan Thackars, on the 30th of December, and robbing him
of half a guinea, a 7s. piece, and 1s. 6d., in silver, his property.

"The Prosecutor was a Jew, and a common informer, in which character
he had gone, on the above mentioned day, to the Fleet Prison, to serve
the wife of Mr. Richards, with a notice to answer to an information
for wearing hair powder without a licence. On his serving the Notice,
Mr. Richards called him back, but he refusing to return, the other
assaulted him, threw him down upon his back, said he knew him very
well, that he was a damned informer, and that he should be pumped.
Then the two Prisoners dragged him to the pump, and, with the
assistance of others, kept pouring water upon him, for a quarter of an
hour. A pail of water was afterwards thrown, by somebody, on his face.
His clothes were all torn: and, when they let him go, he missed his
money. Being asked by the Court if he could charge the Prisoners with
having robbed him, he answered he could not; nor was the money found
on them when apprehended. The Recorder then told the Jury, that as no
charge was made out against the prisoners, they must acquit
them.--_Not Guilty._"

     "BASE COIN FINISHED AT NEWGATE.

     "A very singular circumstance occurred a few days ago at the gaol
     of Newgate: One of the Magistrates of Police having received
     information that a person of the name of _Pullen_, a notorious
     offender who was sentenced to a year's imprisonment for dealing
     in base money, had been carrying on his former trade, while in
     confinement: that the base money of the similitude of a shilling,
     being previously prepared of blanched copper, with King William's
     head faintly impressed on one side, and plain on the other, was
     brought into the prison privately by Agents whom he employed:
     that after the Cells were locked up, this adroit Coiner prepared
     a liquid in which very thin pieces of silver were mixed, which,
     being rubbed upon the Copper shillings, instantly give them the
     appearance of worn down coin of the Mint: that he was assisted in
     the operation by several of the prisoners in the same ward, some
     of whom were his associates in iniquity, and convicted of
     offences against the Mint Laws: That his customers came regularly
     to the prison, and purchased the base money so finished at _two_
     for _one_, paying sixpence for each shilling, although
     intrinsically not worth a halfpenny: that the dies, and some
     other implements for coining belonging to these delinquents, had
     been actually lodged in their trunks at Newgate, and they were
     brought there privately, on every alarm of danger from officers
     of justice, as a place of greater security. This information
     having been communicated to Sir William Staines, one of the
     present Sheriffs of London and Middlesex, with the zeal for the
     public good which characterises the active Magistrate, he went
     alone to Newgate, early in the morning, before the cells were
     unlocked, and caused the trunks, and boxes, belonging to the
     persons convicted of offences against the Mint Laws, to be
     searched; and, in a trunk concealed under _Pullen's_ bed, were
     found no less than £107, 2s. of base money, of the similitude of
     shillings, ready for circulation, and a machine for rounding, or
     milling, the edges of half crowns; and in another trunk belonging
     to an associate of _Pullen_, were found two plain dies, and two
     others for halfpence, and farthings. It would appear that some
     other dies for halfcrowns, and shillings, which had been
     deposited for some time in a trunk belonging to _Pullen_, were
     removed, together with the book he kept for entering the names of
     his customers who visited him, for the purpose of purchasing base
     money for the town, and country, circulation.... The Lord Mayor
     and Sheriffs have investigated the means by which these nefarious
     practices have been carried on, and, we are happy to learn, that
     it arose entirely from the arts, and devices, so familiar to
     criminals, without the knowledge, or privity, of the Turnkeys.
     The result is, that the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs are taking
     immediate steps for establishing such rules, as will probably
     prevent a repetition of the same evil."--(_Times, Nov. 29,
     1796._)


PRIZE FIGHTING AND DUELS.

Prize fighting was beginning to develop into a fine art, and it was
thought no more derogatory in a fine gentleman to assist, by his
presence, at a "Mill," than to be present at a Cock fight. It was
patronised by Royalty, as we see by the following Newspaper Cutting.
Indeed, the Prince of Wales attended several prize fights, until a man
was killed, and then he left the ring to itself.

     "On Friday, a battle was fought at Blackheath between Crabbe, a
     Jew, and Oliver, commonly called _Death_; in which the former was
     victorious. All the great patrons, and distinguished professors
     of this _fine art_ were present, and many bets were laid. The
     battle was honoured, in particular, by the attendance of his
     Royal Highness the Prince of Wales."--(_Morning Post, April 18,
     1788._)

Even those "feeble folk," those superfine gentlemen, the Macaronis,
learned to use their fists, as we see by this illustration.

Any one caring for such particulars will well know that this was the
golden age for pugilism. There were Tom Johnson, 1783-1791. Benjamin
Brain (Big Ben), 1786-1791. Daniel Mendoza, a Jew, 1784-1820. Richard
Humphries, "the Gentleman boxer," 1784-1790. John Jackson, 1788-1795.
Bill Hooper (the Tin man), 1789-1797. Tom Owen, 1796-1799-1820. Tom
Jones (Paddington Jones), 1786-1805. Bill Warr (of Bristol),
1787-1792. Will Wood, the Coachman, 1788-1804. George Ingleston, the
Brewer, 1789-1793. Bob Watson, of Bristol, 1788-1791. Tom Tyne, "the
Tailor," 1788-1792. Symonds (the Ruffian), 1791-1795. Jem Belcher,
1798-1809. This is the list of the Chief Gladiators of the period.

     "Mendoza's terms for teaching are reasonable enough--eight
     lessons for a guinea."--(_Morning Post, May 26, 1788._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_Mendoza_ and _Ward_, finding that the blackguard exercise of
     boxing had fallen into disrepute, took up the _genteel_ trade of
     crimping, and became acting serjeants, at a house in St. George's
     Fields, until a stop was put to that nefarious business by
     authority. We are sorry to find that these notorious blackguards
     have since returned to their former occupation."--(_Times, April
     16, 1795._)

[Illustration: Boxing made easy, or Humphreys giving a lesson.--1788.]

Duels were of as common occurrence, as highway robberies, and need as
much comment. Still, I give two, or three, instances to show on what
trifles, men, then, ventured their lives.

The first is an ordinary duel between two officers, reported in the
_Morning Post_ of 22nd June 1788--in which one of them was wounded in
the thigh. This report brings a letter from some one, probably a
second, who gives his version thus:--"Sir, in your account of the duel
between Captains Tonge and Paterson, in your Paper of the 22nd, there
is a mistake or two, which, for the sake of truth, I beg leave to
correct. You say, 'that _Capt. T. wished to apologise for the injury
he had done_.' The truth is, Captain T. being not quite himself when
the affray happened, remembered very little of what had passed, except
that, on some provocation, he had struck Capt. P. Considering himself,
therefore, as having, _palpably_ broken the peace, he was ready to ask
Capt. P.'s pardon.

"This was not deemed sufficient satisfaction, and the duel took place.
You tell us, that _Capt. T.'s ball passed Capt. P._, thereby implying
that Capt. T. actually fired at his antagonist. Now, Sir, I can
positively affirm that Capt. T. was determined not to fire his pistol,
and that it was involuntarily discharged, after he was wounded, and
not levelled at Capt. P. You tell us then, that Capt. T., upon
falling, declared that '_he had merited his fate, and begged Capt.
P.'s pardon_.' His words were, _Are you satisfied? I fear I am
dangerously wounded, I therefore advise you to fly._

"To enable the Public to judge properly of this affair, it is
necessary they should be told, that the first offence was, Capt. T.'s
treading accidentally on Capt. P.'s heel, who, though he saw Capt. T.
was intoxicated, continued to follow him.

                                               Rich. Weeks."

     "Captain Parkhurst and a Mr. Kelly, are the names of the
     gentlemen who exchanged blows at the Opera House on Saturday
     evening."--(_Times, March 11, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Sunday morning a duel was fought in Hyde Park between Mr.
     Parkhurst and Lieut. Kelly of the Navy. The dispute originated in
     some difference about places at the Opera pit on the preceding
     night. A brace of pistols was discharged, and the latter
     gentleman wounded in the shoulder. The seconds then interfered,
     and brought the matter to a termination."--(_Times, March 13,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Friday morning a duel was fought in a field on the Uxbridge
     Road, between Mr. Duke, surgeon, and Captain D----s, in
     consequence of an old dispute revived a few nights ago in the
     Haymarket Theatre. The parties discharged a brace of pistols
     without effect, but upon Mr. D. discharging his second pistol, a
     ball was lodged in Capt. D.'s arm--upon which the seconds
     interfered, and a reconciliation took place."--(_Times, Feb. 18,
     1793._)


FRENCH EMIGRANTS.

We have seen how, at the outbreak of the French Revolution, the French
came over here in thousands--escaping here as to a haven of refuge.
For the most part they were of the better class; still there were, as
in 1870, a large number of very suspicious characters (to use the
mildest term) among them--and the government was compelled to keep a
very jealous eye on their movements. Taken, however, as a whole, they
behaved wonderfully well, and in no ways abused the asylum, and
protection, they had sought.

     "Government is ridding the country very fast of Jacobins: and in
     doing so, it is taking only a proper precaution during a time of
     war. Some hundreds have been already either expelled, or have
     quitted the country through apprehension; but many more still
     remain here: and we recommend very strongly to the notice of the
     Police Department, the general body of _French Dancing Masters_
     practising in London, who are the veriest Jacobins in existence.
     An exportation of some of these Hop Merchants, and certain French
     Milliners, whom we could name, might be permitted without a
     drawback, and without doing any injury to the Revenue."--(_Times,
     Feb. 15, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The _Maitre d'Hotel_ of the _Duke of York_ was, on Saturday
     last, ordered to quit the country. We some time since remarked
     that there were several rank Jacobins in his Royal Highness's
     household."--(_Times, Feb. 16, 1793._)

He was sent out of the Country either for theft or embezzlement.

     "The Jermyn-Street _Gun_, which is filled with combustible
     matter, should be unloaded, and spiked, or it may become more
     dangerous than it is even at present. A clause ought to be added
     to the _Alien Bill_, interdicting Frenchmen to meet, either in
     public, or private, houses, in a greater number than 5, at one
     and the same time. We cannot be too strict at this moment: and,
     being sojourners here, as objects of public bounty, they cannot
     complain of any regulations which Government may deem necessary
     to make."--(_Times, Feb. 16, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The French Emigrants.[17]

          [Footnote 17: On March 6, there was a letter from the agents
          of the owners of the ship, putting a different complexion on
          the matter: the mutinous conduct of the emigrants being the
          cause of all the trouble.]

     "Some of the papers have circulated very idle reports relative to
     the arrival, in London, of 140 French soldiers; the story is
     precisely as follows: These unfortunate Emigrants, most of them
     descended from opulent, and illustrious, families in France,
     having saved themselves, with the French Princes, from the
     daggers of assassins, were necessitated, at the end of the
     campaign, to enter the service of Spain. They embarked, on the
     4th Dec., at _Bois le Duc_, for _Rotterdam_, and from thence,
     they sailed in the ship _David and Abraham_, commanded by Captain
     _Riendirk_. It would be impossible to describe the bad usage they
     received on board. Obliged to lay upon the bare deck, without a
     bed, and fed with mouldy biscuit, and beer, mixed with salt
     water; in this lamentable situation they remained five weeks.
     These miserable men were covered with vermin, most of them,
     dreadfully galled with sores, and ulcers. Some had not changed
     their linen for two years and an half: others had no linen of any
     kind, and the clothes of the whole troop were in tatters. There
     is reason to believe that the Captain of the vessel proposed to
     sell them as malefactors, to be sent to Batavia. The ship,
     however, was driven on our coast, and as soon as our Government
     was apprized that these poor men were at anchor in Sheerness,
     they took every measure to soften the rigour of their fate. Two
     of their countrymen were dispatched to bring them to London. The
     barbarous inhumanity of the Dutch Captain was notoriously
     conspicuous, and we hope some measures will be taken to bring him
     to justice, and make him an example to others, to avoid similar
     acts of inhumanity."--(_Times, Feb. 28, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is said that Lord Moira, notwithstanding the strange part he
     acts in domestic politics, distributes the amount of £10,000
     annually amongst the French Emigrants, who are only known to him
     by their distresses."--(_Times, Dec. 27, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A French Emigrant was, yesterday, examined before Mr. Ford, at
     the Duke of Portland's Office, on a charge of being a Spy. The
     circumstances adduced were on the information of a Journeyman
     Shoemaker, against his Master, a Mr. Deboo, for making a pair of
     boots with a Cavity between the Soles; covered with sheet lead to
     prevent the wet perforating, for letters of a secret nature.
     After a long examination, it was proved that he was employed by
     the Duke d'Harcourt, on a mission to the officers of his corps in
     Germany, and, his papers containing nothing improper, he was
     discharged: but, the maker of the boots having been, for some
     time, considered a disaffected person, is to be sent out of the
     Kingdom under the Alien Bill."--(_Times, Jan. 6, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In order to obtain a correct information of all the Foreigners
     who reside in this vast metropolis, and whose numbers are said to
     amount to 80,000, and upwards, Government has ordered the parish
     Officers to go from house, to house, and to take down the name of
     any foreigner who resides in the parish. This measure, we
     conceive, would become still more efficacious, if every landlord,
     or tenant, of a house, who lets out lodgings, were obliged to
     inform the Justice of the Peace, of every Foreigner who comes to
     lodge in his house, or leaves it. None but suspicious persons
     will have to complain of the severity of these
     measures."--(_Times, March 11, 1797._)




POLITICAL.


With Politics I had no intention of dealing, but the book would be
incomplete if there were no indication of the party strife of the
period, so that I have been tempted to make a few extracts
principally of 1793-4, when party spirit ran very high. The
revelations as to Elections, will, probably, somewhat astonish the
next generation.

     "The Marquis of Lansdowne's carriage conveyed the whole phalanx
     of opposition, in the house of Lords, to their respective homes,
     after the debate of Friday night: and even then, one corner of
     the coach was unoccupied.

     "The opposition in the Commons, who are a little more numerous,
     were all bundled into Mr. Fox's coach, and that of Michael Angelo
     Turner, with the assistance of a hackney-coach for Jack Courtney,
     and Jekyll.

     "Opposition, sunk to a minority that is insignificant in the
     extreme, was afraid to try the question, on Friday, in either
     House, well knowing that they could not reckon more than a dozen,
     in the Commons, and three in the House of Lords. Must not this
     convince the French of the unanimity of the people of
     England?"--(_Times, Feb. 4, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "All the Members of the Opposition, in both Houses of Parliament,
     are to have a grand civic feast on Saturday next. Dinner is
     bespoke for FOURTEEN!!!"--(_Times, Feb. 5, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Irish papers are full of information of indictments on the
     part of the Crown, against the printers of newspapers in Ireland.
     Thirty or forty names are mentioned in one of the latest Gazettes
     from thence."--(_Times, Feb. 6, 1793._)


     COUNTY OF LEICESTER.--Dec. 19, 1792.

     "It appearing to be the unanimous opinion of all true friends of
     the Constitution, that, in order to prevent the mischievous
     consequences attending a misrepresentation of their sentiments,
     either at home, or abroad, some public avowal of their principles
     is become necessary; We, whose names are hereunto subscribed,
     adopting the resolutions of the Society, at the Saint Alban's
     Tavern, do hereby declare, that we are unanimously, and
     decidedly, of opinion, that, for the security and happiness of
     all classes of our fellow-subjects, for the maintenance of our
     own rights, and liberties, and, for the dearest interests of our
     posterity, it is, in the present moment, incumbent upon us to
     give to the Executive Government, a vigorous, and effectual,
     support, in counteracting the numerous efforts of sedition, in
     detecting, and bringing to legal punishment, the persons
     concerned therein, and in suppressing, in their beginning, all
     tumults, or riots, on whatever pretence they may be excited: do
     hereby publicly declare our determination to take all such steps
     for these purposes, as are within the limits of our duty, in the
     several stations in which the Constitution of our country has
     placed us, and to afford, by our individual exertions, that
     active assistance to the authority of the lawful Magistrate, and
     to the maintenance of the Established Government, which is at all
     times due from the subject of this realm; but which we feel to be
     more particularly necessary, under the circumstances of the
     present time.

     "For these purposes, and to this intent, we are resolved, and do
     declare--

     1. "That we will jointly, and individually, use our utmost
     endeavours to discover the Authors, Publishers, and Distributors,
     of all Seditious Writings, which shall be published, and
     distributed, within the County of Leicester, and particularly,
     all persons who shall be engaged in any illegal Associations, or
     Conspiracies, for the Publication, and Distribution, of such
     writings, or for the exciting Tumults, and Riots, within the said
     County.

     2. "That, in order to carry the above resolutions into effect, we
     do hereby, mutually, bind ourselves to each other, that whenever
     it shall come to our Knowledge, that any person, or persons,
     have, within the said County, Published, or Distributed,
     Seditious Writings, or engaged themselves in such Associations,
     or Conspiracies, for the purposes aforesaid, we will do our
     utmost endeavours to put the laws strictly in force against him,
     or them.

     3. "That we will, on every occasion, exert ourselves, on the
     first appearance of Tumult, or Disorder, to maintain the public
     peace, and to act in support of the civil authority, for
     suppressing all Riots, and for bringing the promoters of them to
     legal punishment.

     "Those who agree in the principles here stated, are invited to
     set their names to this Declaration--Copies of which will be
     sent, for that purpose, to every town, and village, in the
     county, at the Banks of Boultbee & Co., and Bensley & Co., in
     Leicester, and at the Post Offices, in the several Market Towns
     of the county, Subscriptions will be received, from such persons,
     as may be willing to contribute, towards defraying the expenses,
     which may be incurred in carrying into execution the measures
     here stated, and in counteracting the mistaken, and pernicious,
     notions which are so industriously circulated."--(_Times, Feb. 7,
     1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "ST. MARY, ISLINGTON, Mitre Tavern, opposite the Church, Jan. 23.
     We, the undersigned, being PUBLICANS within this Parish, from a
     sense of duty we owe to the present Constitution, and Government
     of this country; and, having a desire to preserve to the utmost
     of our Power, Peace, and Good Order, by preventing the assembling
     of Persons as Societies, or Clubs, for seditious purposes, in our
     several Houses--have this day met, and resolved, and, by this, do
     pledge ourselves, to give immediate Information to the Committee
     appointed at the Church, on the 8th Day of Dec. last, for the
     preservation of the Public Peace, &c., of any Person, or Persons,
     making use of disloyal Expressions or otherwise offending against
     the Peace of the Parish, whereby he, or they, may be brought to
     Punishment for the same. Agreed, That this Resolution be signed
     by as many Publicans within this Parish, as shall approve the
     same, and that it may be advertised in the daily Papers.

     "_N.B._--The signatures contain the whole Number of Publicans in
     this Parish."--(_Times, Feb. 7, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is rather extraordinary, that the Whig Club should forget to
     drink the Duke of Portland's health last Tuesday, and the House
     of Cavendish. There was a time, when the Whig Club was
     respectable; but that is over, and perhaps never to return. The
     last meeting was _a-la-mode D'Egalité_."--(_Times, Feb. 7,
     1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "As the Members of the National Convention are so very fond of
     _Pain_, it cannot be deemed _unfeeling_ to express a sincere wish
     that they all felt it."--(_Times, Feb. 7, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lady Dover's house, it is confidently said, was set on fire by a
     _Frenchman_. The person's name has been publicly mentioned. What
     may, and must, surprise a number of Britons is, that in most of
     the late Opposition families of eminence, the principal servants
     are Frenchmen:--and it is necessary to make public, that these
     foreigners, under the roofs of those who give them bread, utter
     the most treasonable blasphemies against the present Government
     of this country. As some new tax may be requisite, to assist the
     necessary resources of Government, a most heavy impost on French
     servants would be extremely popular. The Steward, the Butler, the
     Cook, the Valet, and the rest of the principal servants in one of
     the first families of Opposition, are French. Does this accord
     with national friendship?"--(_Times, Feb. 8, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There are no patriotic gifts now made for carrying on the war in
     France!--no bodkins, scissors, thimbles, rings, and necklaces!
     The Army is left to shift for itself: and, if they cannot plunder
     a day's subsistence, they must fast."--(_Times, Feby. 9, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In the year 1782, when Mr. Fox gave notice of motion on the
     state of the nation, the House was filled at an early hour to an
     overflow. But on a similar notice, from the same person, in 1793,
     there were not sufficient Members to make a House, and the
     Speaker adjourned to next day. Tempora mutantur."--(_Times, Feb.
     9, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "QUERIES.

     "Why is opposition like a stumbling horse?

     Because it is broken down.

     Why is Lord Lansdowne like a man with the gout?

     Because his mind is engrossed by _Paine_.

     Why is the National Assembly of France like a Crocodile?

     Because it deceives, in order to destroy.

     Why is Mr. Courtney like an apothecary's bill?

     Because he is _ditto repeated_ on all occasions.

     Why is Mr. Erskine like the first two words of the beginning of
     the Eclogues of Virgil?

     Because he commences with _Ille Ego_.

     Why is _Michael Angelo Taylor_ like a barrel organ?

     Because any person can play upon him.

     Why is Lord Courtney like Narcissus?

     Because he is in love with himself.

     Why is Mrs. Sturt like a young kitten?

     Because she is fond of play.

     Why is the Club at _Brookes's_ like cannibals?

     Because they prey one upon another.

     Why is Mrs. Siddons like the late Sir Joshua Reynolds?

     Because she deceives the public into a belief that art is nature.

     Why is Lord Wycombe an advocate for peace?

     Because his father made _nothing_ until he put an end to the war.

     Why are the Members of Opposition like the live stock of a
     Register Office?

     Because they _want places_."--(_Times, Feb. 9, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In days of yore, Lady Wallace would have been burnt for a witch
     from the prophecies, now verified, which she published a year
     ago, in a letter to her son:--She foretold that the _Prince_
     would soon throw off the corrupt ministers to his youthful
     pleasures, and shew himself the protector of that happy
     Government, which alone can insure the wealth, freedom, and
     glory, of England! She says, "he will emerge in all the splendour
     which attends the noon-day sun, after having dispersed the clouds
     exhaled from foul vapours beneath him." She foretold that the
     united forces would not succeed in their attack upon France: that
     England must inevitably be speedily involved in war, from the
     convulsed state of the Continent:--She said, that if foreign
     Powers would take no hostile part against the French, that they
     would prey like wolves upon each other, and do more towards a
     Counterrevolution, by their frenzy being vented in internal
     discord, than all Europe would ever force them to do. It was her
     Ladyship who first boldly exposed to a great personage, and
     society, _Egalité's_ crimes, and foretold, that, after having
     washed his daggers in Royal blood at Paris, he would send his
     hireling ruffians to attempt like horrors here! truths which are
     well known now, although they appeared then incredible. Her
     information when on the Continent, and knowledge of foreign
     politics, are most accurate, and valuable."--(_Times, Feb. 12,
     1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The _first speech_ Mr. Grey ever delivered in Parliament, was on
     the subject of the Commercial Treaty with France. _At that time_
     Mr. Grey expressed, in very forcible language, his abhorrence of
     any connexion _whatever_ with the French, and, strongly insisting
     on their inbred hatred to this country, declared, they were a
     perfidious, and treacherous, people, and on no account to be
     trusted."--(_Times, Feb. 14, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Mr. Grey, being the only Man not in Mourning in the House of
     Commons, on a late melancholy occasion."--(_Times, Feb. 14,
     1793._)

       "'Twas unfeeling forsooth,
       Every Man in the House
       Was in mourning, but one who drest gay;
       As he would not be Black,
       He'll be made to look Blue,
       A mixture which forms a bad Grey."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is said that there have been one hundred and twenty-one
     Changes in the Peerage since the commencement of Mr. Hastings's
     trial in 1788."--(_Times, Feb. 18, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An Expostulation with John Bull, in favour of the Marquis of
     L--nsd--n:--

         "Of the Candidates John for thy favour of late,
         Among all who are noble, and wish to be great,
         Sure L--nsd--n, with reason may fairly complain,
         That his merits could never your confidence gain!
         The Moralists too, will confess with a tear,
         That Virtue performs but a Pilgrimage here!
         Else had L--nsd--n long since been possess'd of that pow'r
         Which England took from him, in splenetic hour.
         He was always a Friend to his Country's Cause,
         The prop of her Church, the support of her Laws;
         He ne'er with Republicans chose to accord,
         And his Foes never call'd him the Levelling Lord.
         He made the fam'd Peace of the year Eighty Three,
         A Peace, John, as good for himself, as for thee.
         In his speech he is open, and candid no doubt,
         For which side he espouses, no man can find out;
         Whether Whig, whether Tory, of High Church, or Low;
         You may puzzle your brains, but you never will know.
         As a proof that the Marquis is no Partizan,
         Let the world call six persons his Friends--if it can.[18]
         Great Jekyll, that man so renowned at the Bar,
         More witty than Fielding, more learned than Parr,
         Who punning despises, as L--nsd--n does place,
         Says, his Patron's pure mind, is as fair as his face,
         That his Bounty and Eloquence equally flow,
         To comfort the Weak, and to succour the Low.
         Yet this eloquent speaker, this statesman so just,
         No Sect will confide in, no Party will trust;
         And I speak it, alas! with reproach to mankind,
         To his Merits and Virtue, his Country is blind!
         And when full of honours and Years he shall die,
         Ungrateful Britannia, will not heave a sigh;
         Nay, perhaps with a sneer, she may scoffingly say,
         The Sun of my Glory, is faded away!![19]

                                                     "ZTIF."

     --(_Times, Feb. 16, 1793._)

          [Footnote 18: We imagine Political Friends must here be
          alluded to--for the amiable and endearing qualities of the
          Marquis's sympathising heart, must have insured him, in
          private life, the warm affections of all his relations and
          dependants.]

          [Footnote 19: At the conclusion of the American War, when
          the noble Marquis came into power, he emphatically said "the
          Sun of England's Glory was set for ever," and many grave
          people entertained that opinion during the short time his
          Lordship was Minister of this Country.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     "No less than eighty four actions of _bribery_ are brought on the
     business of the _Stockbridge_ election; the penalties sued for
     amount to £42,000."--(_Times, Feb. 28, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "'Want of information is our bane,' says the female politician in
     the _Humourist_: but the following anecdote, which is a fact,
     will prove that want of information is not numbered among the
     wants of Administration. A Young Gentleman, Clerk in an Office
     under Government, in consequence of strong entreaties from a
     friend, accompanied him to a meeting of about thirty, at a
     tavern, when, after dinner, several very seditious toasts were
     given, the visitor was called on, and gave the King; this toast,
     however, being rejected, and all expostulations proving in vain,
     he left the company soon after, and the next day, by the advice
     of his friends, waited on Mr. Pitt, to tell his story. But, judge
     his surprise, when the Minister, interrupting him, produced a
     paper, in which was written the names of the parties, the order
     in which they sate, the toasts drank, and here, sir, added Mr.
     Pitt, observe your own name placed at the bottom!!!"--(_Times,
     March 5, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Diamond cut Diamond.--Dr. Priestly, we will not say lately, gave
     'the _Sans Culottes of England_' at a dinner party. A Clergyman
     of the Church of England, willing to get rid of politics, archly
     exclaimed--'Yes, with all my heart, I presume you mean the single
     ladies, for the married ones generally wear the breeches.' The
     wit being called upon in his turn, Dr. Priestley desired the
     President to be on his guard, for he saw plainly that the
     Clergyman, if presented with an INCH, would take an ELL. 'Thank
     you for the hint, Doctor,' replied the Clerical Humourist. 'Yes,
     I'll take three L's, so here's Liberty, Loyalty, and Lawn
     Sleeves!' The room, of course, was in a roar, and the Doctor,
     quite SHOCKED, went off like lightning without a
     CONDUCTOR."--(_Times, March 4, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The late contest at _Wycombe_, between Sir F. Baring and Mr.
     Dashwood, was carried on to a very high pitch by the mob. Lord
     Wycombe was thrown down in the mud. Mr. Dashwood lost his hat in
     the affray, and all was confusion and riot. The _Lansdowne_
     interest, however, prevailed, and Sir Francis was
     returned."--(_Times, Feb. 7, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Sir Francis Baring is elected Member for _High Wycombe_, in the
     room of Sir John Jervis. Sir Francis was opposed by Sir John
     Dashwood. The votes were, for Sir F. B. 29, Sir John D.
     22."--(_Times, Feb. 5, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The _Society for Constitutional Information_, held a meeting at
     the Crown and Anchor, in the Strand, on Friday last, where toasts
     of the most seditious tendency were drunk, and sentiments
     expressed which ought to send the speakers to Botany Bay. The
     number of seditionists who met on the above occasion, amounted to
     300 persons; among whom were not to be found above three who
     possessed an acre of land in this country. They were men mostly
     in desperate circumstances, who had everything to gain, and
     nothing to lose, by a Revolution. They toasted success to the
     French, sung the _Marseillois treasonable Hymn_, and _Ça ira_,
     arraigned the justice of the law that had punished traitors in
     Scotland, Ireland, and England, and gave the health of those
     traitors. They abused and vilified the House of Commons, called
     the Royal Family, and the Nobility of Great Britain, beggars:
     said it was the interest of the people to join with those
     struggling in the cause against which our Country was fighting.
     In short they did everything short of _active
     rebellion_."--(_Times, May 5, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On a lamp post, in the Westminster-Road, is a paper with the
     Title of Public Notice, respecting some parish business, and
     immediately underneath it, is Sir Joseph Mawbey's late speech at
     Epsom. Two sailors stopping on Sunday to read it, when one had
     began, the other cried out--'Stop, Jack: you're wrong, don't you
     see it is _beneath_ Public Notice?' alluding to the paper above
     it: and they both walked away."--(_Times, Nov. 3, 1794._)

A Reform Bill was sorely needed in the matters of Elections.

     "Election for _Launceston, Cornwall_. Candidates, Hon. Mr.
     Rawdon, Mr. Brogden. The numbers were as follows:--

       Hon. Mr. Rawden and Mr. Brogden,      12.
       Dalkeith and Garthshore,              11.

     "This contest here was a hard fought battle between the Duke of
     Northumberland and the Duke of Buccleugh. Both parties have spent
     a great deal of money: but the former has carried the
     day."--(_Times, June 6, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_Shrewsbury Election._--The state of the Poll on Monday was as
     follows:--Sir W. Pulteney, 1607; John Hill, Esq., 834; Hon. W.
     Hill, 832. The Election, it is thought, will cost Sir Richard
     Hill £100,000. The expence to each party is about £1000 per
     day."--(_Times, June 9, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A certain new Member for a Borough in the West of England, is
     indebted to the family Jewels of his wife for bearing the expence
     of his Election. Not only her diamonds, but the greater part of
     her cloaths have been withheld. Those that were returned to her,
     would have disgraced her waiting woman."--(_Times, July 4,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday conformable to an ancient ridiculous custom, came on
     the Election, at Wandsworth, for a Mayor of Garratt. The
     candidates were two--Sir _George Cooke_, Greengrocer and
     Inhabitant of Lambeth: and Sir _Harry Dimsdale_, a Muffin Baker.
     Sir _George_ set off from his house in the morning, surrounded by
     all the appendages of grandeur, and placed in an open landau,
     drawn by six beautiful horses, with postillions on the first
     four, elegantly attired in red. A coach and four preceded him all
     the way in equal style.

     "After he had arrived at the entrance of Wandsworth, his horses
     were taken out by the mob, and he was drawn by them to the
     Hustings, where he joined his opponent, who was little short of
     Sir _George_ in point of _etiquette_. After a long preamble from
     each party, promising unremitting attention to the duties of the
     office, the honours of the day were conferred on Sir George
     Cooke."--(_Times, Aug. 25, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Garrat Election.--Most of the Morning Prints of yesterday
     misstated this business. It was Sir _Harry Dimsdale_, and not Sir
     _George_ Cooke, who was returned. Those who supported Sir George,
     did not even put him in nomination. He was drawn there, it is
     true, but he made no stand: he gave up the contest, and Sir Harry
     was crowned with a green bough, and the horses taken from his
     carriage by the populace, who drew him in triumph to the Bull, at
     East Sheen, to dinner, where above six hundred people sat down to
     a plentiful dinner. After dinner, it was proposed that Sir Harry
     should go, on Friday, in State, to the Royal Circus, in St.
     George's Fields, and this motion being carried, we understand the
     Muffin Knight will actually be there this evening."--(_Times,
     Aug. 26, 1796._)

This was the last of these mock elections--and we may well pause for a
while, and examine this curious institution--unique in its way--not
thoroughly well-known--and whose origin, even, is in dispute.

Not far from Wandsworth, on the road to Tooting, is found the hamlet
of Garrett, or Garrat, which, in the time of Queen Elizabeth, appears
to have consisted of a single house, called "the Garvett." This was,
at the time of its destruction, about the year 1760, in the possession
of the Broderick family, and its grounds were then let to a market
gardener. Lyson's, writing in 1792, says the hamlet consisted of about
50 houses--but it grew until it became incorporated into Wandsworth,
and its site is still known by "Garret Lane," "Garret Green," "Garret
Hill," &c.

As regards the curious mock election which took place here with each
new Parliament, nothing certain is known, and opinions are divided, as
to its origin. Dr. Ducarel, an antiquary, writing in 1754, tells us,
that as far as he can find out, it began, some 60 or 70 years
previously, with some Wandsworth Watermen, who went to a public house,
called the Leather Bottle, at Garrat, to spend a merry day--and, it
being a general election, they, in fun, chose one of their number as
Member for Garrat.

[Illustration: Jeffrey Dunstan,--Ordinary Costume.]

Another version is given in the "Gentleman's Magazine" for 1781, in
which a writer says he was told, that about thirty years previously,
several persons who lived near that part of Wandsworth which adjoins
to Garrat Lane, had formed a kind of Club, not merely for the
pleasures of the table, but to concert measures for removing the
encroachments made on that part of the Common; and to prevent any
others being made, for the future. When a sufficient sum of money had
been subscribed amongst them, they brought an action against the
encroacher, in the name of the president (or, as they called him,
Mayor,) of the Club. They gained their suit, with costs, and, ever
after, the president, was called "the Mayor of Garrat." This event
happening at the time of a general election, the ceremony, which took
place every new parliament, of choosing _outdoor_ members for the
borough of Garrat, was continued.

The earliest record of Members being chosen, is in 1747, when three
Candidates for the honour appeared. Lord Twankum Squire Blow me down
(Willis, a Waterman) and Squire Gubbins, (one Simmonds, a publican.)
The "Clerk," and "Recorder," issued from an imaginary Town Hall. There
were proper Hustings, at which an oath was administered to the
electors which, according to Grose, was sworn on a brick bat--and the
qualification was, that the juror had had an amour in the surrounding
open fields.

There was a great deal of rough wit in the candidate's speeches, and
Foote, Garrick, and Wilkes, were credited with writing their
addresses. Foote even wrote a play, called "the Mayor of Garratt,"
which was produced at Drury Lane. There were elections in 1761, 1763,
1768, &c. That of 1781--was famous for the magnificence of its
procession--having a real live man in armour. In 1784, Sir Jeffrey
Dunstan (they all dubbed themselves knights) was elected to the
honourable post, and he held it till his death in 1796.

This worthy needs a passing notice. His birth, and education, were but
humble, for he was found, wrapped in a cloth, on the door step of a
Church warden, of St. Dunstan's in the East--hence his name of
Dunstan. He grew up deformed, and rickety, and, at the age of 12, was
apprenticed to a greengrocer, for 9 years--but the servitude galled
him, and he ran away, finding employment at Birmingham. He returned to
London in 1776 and soon afterwards married--and had two daughters, who
were really fine young women. He was squalid, and filthy, in his
dress, and got his living by buying, and selling, old wigs. His
humour, however, gained him his election for Garrett. The accompanying
illustrations shew him in his ordinary dress, as "Old Wigs," and in
the superb court suit which he sported at election times.

The Election, at last, led to such disgraceful scenes, that even the
publicans, who were its chief mainstay, would no longer support it:
and Sir Harry Dimsdale, holds the proud pre-eminence of being the last
elected Member.

[Illustration: Sir Jeffrey Dunstan,--Court Dress.]




ROYALTY.


Lives of the Georges, and their families, have been written _ad
nauseam_, and I did not intend making any notes upon the Royal
personages, then living--but I found some few paragraphs, which lie
outside regular history, and may interest my readers.

     "It was rather unfortunate for the Prince of Wales's proxy at the
     Court of Brunswick, that he should be attacked with the Gout, on
     the night of the marriage ceremony! Lord Malmesbury continued to
     be confined to his room when the last accounts came from
     Brunswick."--(_Times, Dec. 15, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "TO LORD MALMESBURY,

     "On his being attacked by the Gout, the day he represented the
     Prince of Wales, in marriage with the Princess of Brunswick:--

       "At such a time, the Gout to have,
         Is much to be lamented,
       What must the Royal Bride conceive
         Of him you represented?

                                  CUPID."

     --(_Times, Dec. 16, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "LORD MALMESBURY'S GOUT.

       "His Lordship's sent to _Brunswick's_ Court
         By Proxy, there to wed
       A Royal Princess: as Consort
         To George, our Prince's, bed.

       But charms like hers, in bloom of life,
         Too strong for age to meet:
       As he approached th' intended wife:
         _Deprived him of his feet._"

     --(_Times, Dec. 17, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "THE LAME LOVER, or BRITISH AND FRENCH SYNONIMY.

       "With coach and six, with servants eight,
       With liveries spic and span;
       Too sure, alas! a wretched fate
       Befel the splendid, _happy_ man.
       At such a time, as this, the Gout!
       'Twas pity, Sirs, and yet 'tis true:
       The _Proxy's_ good, if Fame's not out--
       His Royal Highness has a _Gout_."

     --(_Times, Dec. 18, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Her Majesty is very busily employed in embroidering a coat and
     waistcoat, for his Majesty, which are to be worn at the
     approaching nuptials of the Prince, and Princess of Wales. The
     coat is made of garter blue, broad cloth, and the waistcoat of
     white satin. The ornamental part is spoken of as being extremely
     beautiful."--(_Times, Jan. 13, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The usual dress liveries of the Prince of Wales, while a
     bachelor, cost fifty guineas each: those, in which they will
     appear before the Princess, have cost one hundred guineas
     each."--(_Times, March 17, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Amidst the _curious bills_ which are daily being brought to
     light, under the investigation of the Prince's Trustees, is one
     of Mr. Layton the _farrier_, which, for the last seven years,
     amounts to no less than £17,500!"--(_Times, Aug. 29, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The King being prevented, by the severity of the weather, from
     taking his usual diversion of hunting, at Windsor, his Majesty,
     with his usual suite, makes daily pedestrian excursions, some of
     which amount to a route little short of 20 miles."--(_Times, Dec.
     9, 1796._)

The _Times_ of Jan. 17, 1798, contains a paragraph, showing the
domesticity, and simplicity of life, in the Royal Family.

     "The Princess of Wirtemberg expects to lie in, towards the latter
     end of next month; and her Majesty, and the Princesses, are very
     busily employed in making the childbed linen, which is to be a
     present from the Queen."

       *       *       *       *       *

     (The Queen's Birthday.)

     "The BALL-ROOM. The Ball was the thinnest, in company, that we
     have ever witnessed, there being only two Ladies on the benches
     allotted for those who dance. Neither the Prince, nor Princess,
     of Wales, the Duke, or Duchess of York, were present. Soon after
     nine o'clock, their Majesties entered the Ball-room. The Duke of
     Clarence danced the two first minuets with the Princess Augusta,
     and two more with the Princess Elizabeth, which is very unusual.
     Prince William danced the next two with the Princess Mary, and
     two more with the Princess Sophia. Lord Morton then danced two
     dances with Lady Murray, daughter to the Duke of Athol, and two
     more with Lady M. Thynne. There were four country Dances, but
     only six couple. The Ball broke up soon after 11
     o'clock."--(_Times, Jan. 19, 1798._)

Here is a specimen of Royal economy, which was certainly unpopular:--

     "Some of the cream-coloured horses formerly attached to the Royal
     Coach, and which were only used on state days, are now employed
     in the daily drudgery of hackney coaches. The present proprietor
     values them very highly, and thinks, from their great receipt of
     custom, that they will draw him into an easy fortune."--(_Times,
     Aug. 10, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "To the CONDUCTOR of the TIMES.

     "Sir,--Among many others, I was yesterday a spectator of what you
     notice in your paper of this morning. A pair of those noble
     animals, which, for several years, have drawn his Majesty's State
     Coach, degraded to a hack. The spectacle really gave me concern,
     and must certainly reflect disgrace somewhere. It necessarily
     suggests two considerations, one relative to the dignity of
     Majesty itself, the other to the natural emotions of sensibility.
     What! say the vulgar, are the _King's_ State Horses come to this?
     Oh! what a pity! says the man of sensibility, that these poor
     creatures recently, and habitually, so caressed, and pampered,
     should experience such a lamentable reverse! How fallen, how
     abused, how galled! I assure you, Mr. Editor, they are
     _literally_, and _grievously_, _galled_. Surely his Majesty must
     be a stranger to all this: and it would be of no dis-service to
     him, to let the Public know that he is so. Those who love him,
     cannot but feel for his horses, nor refrain from thinking that
     his sensibility, as a man, must be hurt, at hearing of the
     sufferings of those stately animals, which once contributed to
     his most magnificent public appearance.

                                         A Dutiful Subject."

     --(_Times, Aug. 12, 1796._)

Here is a bit of Satire on the Prince of Wales, who was notoriously at
variance with both his father and mother.

     "An illustrious Personage is now engaged in making a collection
     of the profile likenesses of his friends. The number already
     collected is stated to amount to _fifty_. His friends are
     certainly more numerous than those of almost any Prince we ever
     heard of, except our own Sovereign. The wealthy Croesus had but
     one friend, and that was his son."--(_Times, Nov. 6, 1799._)




VARIETIES.


The year 1788 begins well, with an account of a coming of age, which
seems to have been conducted in the classical taste peculiar to this
period.

     "The late celebration of Miss Pulteney coming of age, bore much
     the appearance of idolatrous sacrifice. The procession headed by
     an _ox_, adorned with _flowers_, his horns painted _blue_, and
     _tipped with gold_, preceded by a band of music, and afterwards
     offered up, were all so much in character, that could the _High
     Priest_, himself, of Rome been present, and beheld the charming
     object of their veneration, he would have mistaken her for a
     _Venus_, and joined the throng, with all that ardour the
     immediate presence of a divinity ought to inspire."--(_Morning
     Post, Jan. 1, 1788._)

The following advertisement from the _Morning Post_ of March 13, 1788,
gives us perhaps the earliest glimmer of reform on the old tinder box,
flint and steel, and matches, Lucifer Matches not being generally used
till 1834:--

     "For Travellers, Mariners, &c.

     "Promethean Fire and Phosphorus.

     "G. Watts respectfully acquaints the public, that he has prepared
     a large variety of machines of a portable, and durable kind, with
     Promethean fire, paper and match inclosed, most admirably
     calculated to prevent those disagreeable sensations, which
     frequently arise in the dreary hour of midnight, from the sudden
     alarm of thieves, fire, or sickness; as, by procuring an
     instantaneous light, the worst calamities and depredations might
     often be prevented in families. Experience has likewise proved
     this invention to be of the first utility to the traveller,
     mariners, and those people who frequently rise in the
     night-time, as they can, with one of these matches procure light
     instantly, without the great expence, and danger, of burning a
     lamp or candle."

Anything that illustrates the Social Life of "Old Times," must needs
be of interest, even though, as in the accompanying engraving, the
subject be painful. It is by Rowlandson, and shews, better than words
can convey, the then treatment of that saddest of all human
maladies--mental aberration.

Chained by the neck to a wall--scantily clothed--barefoot, and with
but straw to lie on, was hardly the usage by which the alienated
intellect could be restored to its proper tone--yet so it was, in too
many cases, that mad people were treated: the whip, and even harsher
punishment following, should they show any signs of rebellion.

     "The bet of his Grace of Bedford, that Lord Barrymore will not
     eat a live Cat, is not without precedent on the records of
     sporting. On a wager of fifty pounds, a fellow who lived near the
     race-course of Kildare, in Ireland, devoured five fox cubs, and
     literally began eating each while alive. It is, however, to be
     observed, that the devourer was a natural fool, having been born
     deaf, dumb, and without a palate."--(_Morning Post, Mar. 15,
     1788._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A fine topaz sold at Tenducci's sale for seven guineas; the
     finest in the kingdom: is the property of Mrs. More of Stockwell,
     and what, perhaps, would increase its value in the estimation of
     many people, this topaz once belonged to Queen Anne. It is near
     an inch in diameter, and of most uncommon brilliancy."--(_Morning
     Post, Ap. 17, 1788._)

That Agriculture was not neglected, we can well imagine, for England
had to be almost self contained, as regarded food for her
population--but few know to what a pitch of perfection sheep breeding
was carried--nor the enormous prices paid for the hire of stud rams.

[Illustration: Treatment of Lunatics.]

     "Mr. Bakewell, the famous grazier, has lost one of his most
     remarkable rams. It was of such value, that he let it out to
     hire, and received £400 for the season."--(_Morning Post, Sept.
     12, 1788._)

This was the far famed agriculturist. Robert Bakewell--who brought his
father's famous "Dishley" sheep to such perfection, that in 1787, he
let three rams, for a year, for £1250, and was offered, but refused,
£1050 for twenty ewes. When we think of the difference of the value of
Currency, then, and now, these prices are fairly staggering. These
Dishley sheep had good qualities, they were quiet--they fattened
quickly, and well--and they had small bones. But Bakewell, even in his
cattle, as well as his sheep, always kept in view, what, even now, are
the guiding principles in our Cattle shows--Perfection of form--the
most meat from the least food--the least offal--and large joints with
small bones.

     "The following is a copy of a hand bill, which was a few days ago
     distributed in the city of Edinburgh:--

     "'_Thou shalt not steal_--All persons whom it may concern are
     desired to take notice, that _steel traps of the largest sort_,
     for catching breakers of the eighth Commandment, are, every
     night, placed in the garden at St. Bernard's, between Stockbridge
     and the Water of Leith, on the North side of the water: That
     _spring guns_ are set to rake the Walls with shot, upon a touch
     of a wire; and, that a _tent, having in it an armed Watchman_, is
     pitched in the middle, with orders to fire without mercy.

     "'If, therefore, any evil disposed unhappy person or persons,
     shall attempt to break into the ground of St. Bernard's, their
     blood be upon their own heads.

     "'Of the fruit of the garden thou shalt not eat; for in the day
     that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die,'" _Gen. 2.
     27._--(_Morning Post, Sept. 17, 1788._)

     "One day last week a Sub distributor of Stamps, who resides a few
     miles from London, and who is also a Glover, was convicted in the
     penalty of Eighty Pounds, before the Sitting Magistrates at the
     Public Office, in St. Martin's Lane, for selling Four Pair of
     Gloves without Stamps." Probably under 25 Geo. 3, cap. 55.
     (1785.)--(_Morning Post, Oct. 20, 1788._)

The following singular inscription is literally taken from a sign in
the vicinity of Reading:--

     "Beards taken off and registered.

     "_By Isaac Fac-totum._

     "Barber, Peri-wig maker, Surgeon, Parish Clerk, Scool master, and
     Man midwife.

     "Shaves for a penne, cuts hare for toopense and oyld and powdird
     into the bargain--Young Ladys genteely edicated, Lamps lited by
     the hear or quarter. Young Gentlemen also taut their Grammer
     Langwage in the neetest maner and great cear takin of their
     Morels and Spelin--Also Saline singing and horse Shewin by the
     real maker! Likewise makes and mends all sorts of Butes and
     Shoes, Teches the Ho-boy and Jews-harp, Cuts corns bledes and
     blisters on the lowes Terms; Glisters and purgis at a penne
     apiece. Cow-tillions and other dances taut at home and abrode.
     Also deals holesale and retale pirfummery in all its branchis.
     Sells all sorts of Stationary wair twogether with blackin balls
     red herrins gingerbred Coles scrubbin brushes traycle mouce traps
     and other swetemetes.

     "Likewise Godfathers Cordiel red rutes Tatoes Sassages and all
     other gardin stuff. N.B.--I teches joggrafy and those outlandish
     kind of things--A Bawl on Wensdays and Fridays all pirfomed god
     willin by me Isaac Factotum."--(_Morning Post, Nov. 19, 1788._)

       *       *       *       *       *

       "An Impromptu
       on Mr. Domford's Piety.

       "So pious was Josiah's care
       He sacred would keep one day,
       And in the gutter threw his beer
       For Working on a Sunday."

     --(_Morning Post, Jan. 6, 1789._)

Who can say after reading the following that our grandfathers were not
a match for the Americans, at telling a "tall" story:--

     "Natural History.

     "A very curious incident happened near Edmonton last week, to
     account for which we are unable, and leave the explanation to
     botanical and Chirurgical professors.

     "A farmer requested some lettuces from a gentleman in the
     neighbourhood, who permitted the farmer's maid to gather what she
     wanted; she gathered likewise some Cucumbers, and near them were
     glasses covering sensitive and humble plants, which the wench
     gathered as small sallad.

     "The farmer eat heartily of these, and the effect was, that after
     dinner, tho' he is a very fat man, a slight touch from another
     person made him shrink at least five stone; but, towards the
     evening, he recovered gradually his usual bulk and weight; and,
     when he had evacuated the sallad and mimosa, he retained his
     corpulency as if nothing extraordinary had happened.

     "This we insert as a caution to persons not to mix this plant
     with other pot herbs."--(_Morning Post, Aug. 31, 1789._)

Gillray, Oct. 4, 1791, gives us the accompanying extremely graphic
illustrations--shewing the difference of behaviour at the Opera and at
Church--the vivacity of the one, and the somnolence of the other.

     "A Card

     "Addressed to those among the female sex, whose desires are
     neither Romantic nor Extravagant, who stand in need and wish for
     such an opportunity as is now offered.

     "A SINGLE GENTLEMAN who is blest with an Independence, adequate
     to every real comfort in life, and having none to provide for,
     prefers permanent friendship and protection to a Lady possessing
     the following requisites: age not exceeding 35, person well
     shaped, teeth sound and regular, good voice, a stranger to the
     hackneyed tricks of the town: good temper, constancy, a social
     disposition, engaging manners, a turn to economy, and a knowledge
     by experience of domestic concerns, a taste for simplicity and
     elegance in dress, spruce in her person, and attentive to
     neatness in others; free from incumbrance, affectation and
     unpleasant habits: a pleasing countenance, if the face should
     neither be beautiful nor pretty--musical talents, vocal and
     instrumental--and she who may be the greatest proficient on the
     pianoforte or harpsichord, or what is still more irresistible,
     the harp, if in other respects equal, will claim the preference.
     The Lady, of course, must be totally at her own disposal: if a
     native of Britain, a Knowledge of French so as to speak it
     fluently; if a foreigner, capable of speaking and writing the
     English language with ease and propriety: and both native, and
     foreign, habituated to the English Customs in every point of
     cleanliness and delicacy.

     "Should she be conversant with Italian, with a genius for
     painting, poetry, astronomy, botany, &c., she would be the more
     acceptable. Not only the utmost regard to decorum will be
     observed upon this occasion, but that respect which the delicacy
     of the sex demands, shall be manifested as early as possible. He
     hopes, therefore, since his motives are so obvious, that those
     whose sentiments are congenial with his own, who mean to notice
     this address will do it speedily, as the Author will soon be
     going to the Continent on an extensive tour.

     "For this and other cogent reasons, which hereafter may be
     specified, Principals only will be treated with. Such
     communications, and positively no other, as are written in the
     Party's own hand, at once explicit respecting situation,
     intention and expectation, &c., shall according to their merits
     be duly acknowledged, and the necessary steps in consequence
     will be pointed out to bring the matter with safety to an
     immediate issue.

     "Should an object whose person, talents, and accomplishments,
     &c., are superior to the generality of females, be discovered
     with proofs of serious intention, a marriage may be the result.
     The want of pelf, if of a respectable connection, should with the
     Author, be no impediment thereto, being, with prudence, amply
     provided for. The Advertiser forbears saying any more of himself,
     than that his person, age, qualities, &c., would probably suit
     such a Lady as he has described: and as a well cultivated mind,
     united with the requisites above stated, would be preferred to
     the consideration of either family, or fortune, he hopes some
     credit will be allowed him for his good intentions.

     "Letters free of postage will be received if addressed to G. A.
     S., at the Recorder Printing Office, No. 12 Duke St. Drury
     Lane."--(_Times, Feby. 7, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "ELEGANT PRIZE FOR LADIES.

     "Marriage Ceremonies, Science of Match-Making, Names
     Qualifications and Fortunes, of Heirs and Heiresses--Copious and
     Alphabetical List of Marriages in Great Britain and Ireland--New
     and Chaste Love Epistles--Matrimonial Bon Mots--Art of
     Tormenting--New and predominant Fashions, delineated by the Pen
     and Pencil,--And a new Cassino Fan, by way of reward, to the Lady
     who shall best answer the prize Enigma, Charade, or Puzzle.

     "This day is published, price 6d, embellished with--1. Ludicrous
     representation of a Foreign Marriage Ceremony.--2. Exact sketches
     of the newest and most prevailing Male and Female Dresses.--3. A
     new Matrimonial Song set to Music.

     Number 1. (to be continued monthly) of

     "THE MATRIMONIAL MAGAZINE for January 1793. To contain, besides
     what is above enumerated, original Essays, Biographical Sketches,
     Dramatic Tales, Tales humorous and pathetic, alike calculated for
     the Maid, the Widow, and the Wife, the Stripling and the
     Greybeard. Wit will be combined with decency, and humour with
     sense.

     "London: Printed for H. D. Symonds, No. 20 Paternoster
     Row."--(_Times, Feb. 15, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Advt.--BOLD STROKE FOR A WIFE.

     "A person who has been six months deprived of what he calls
     Heaven's chiefest blessing, domestic happiness, is not ashamed of
     thus avowing his intention of again endeavouring to regain, by
     Marriage, that solid felicity he so much regrets the loss of, and
     hopes this way to become acquainted with some Maiden Lady, who
     has a soul superior to vulgar prejudices, and who will venture to
     go a little out of the beaten road, in order to form a truly
     rational plan for that sociable happiness which is only to be
     found in the Marriage State. The writer of this has no children,
     his age is between 40 and 50: he has acquired, by trade, £20,000,
     has a house at the West end of the town, another in Kent, and a
     Coach to take him from one to the other: so that he thinks
     himself deserving of a Lady of equal fortune: the more so, as he
     will permit her to make it over to herself or her relations: and
     if she should not possess more than half that sum, 'he'd ne'er
     quarrel for that.'--A line, addressed to W. W., No. 32 Snow Hill,
     by any Lady, or her friends, will be considered as a mark of good
     sense, and treated with the respect that is due from a man of
     sense to the fair sex."--(_Times, March 10, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--"Matrimony. A Gentleman of small independent Fortune,
     occupying a Farm in a retired Part of the Country, within 20
     miles South West of London, takes this public method of
     addressing any Lady, who may feel happy, and disposed to place
     herself under the protection of such a person. He is a Widower,
     28 years of age, with an only child, who is amply provided for.
     On the part of the Lady, it will be expected that her person be
     fair, her mind amiable, and well-informed, her disposition
     feminine. In return, the conduct of the Gentleman will be found
     to be in every respect manly, honourable, and sincere. A line by
     way of introduction, addressed to Mr. Amiens, Epsom, will be paid
     every attention to, and it is particularly entreated, that no
     other, but of the above description, will give themselves that
     trouble."--(_Times, Novr. 26, 1798._)

The French were very badly off for clothing, and as war was on the
very eve of commencement--(diplomatic relations between the two
Countries having ceased, and the French already having begun open
hostilities)--clothing, naturally, was considered "Contraband of War:"
hence the following:--

     "A vessel loaded with cloathing, to the amount of £120,000, was
     on Tuesday stopped in the River. She was bound to a port in
     France."--(_Times, Feb. 7, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Earl of Bute's grand Orrery was sold yesterday for the
     trifling sum of sixty guineas, and the celebrated annual clock,
     regulating the revolutionary movements of two globes, and of an
     orrery for twenty-six guineas."--(_Times, Feb. 9, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Tuesday as Mrs. Fitzherbert, (George 4th's wife) attended by
     Miss Bell Pigott, was riding in her carriage in Pall Mall, the
     carriage of Colonel Strickland came in close contact with that of
     the ladies, by which they were both overturned.

     "On Mrs. Fitzherbert and Miss Bell Pigott's overturn--

       "What ups and downs a Woman feels
         In almost every station;
       Down went our Heads, up came our Heels
         'Talk of a Coronation!!!'

                                        "COETERA DESUNT."

     --(_Times, Feb. 28, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On the late INUNDATION in OLD PALACE YARD.

      "On one side Duke Norfolk[20] pushed forward with strife
      For he never liked Water throughout his whole life."

          [Footnote 20: He was notorious for his drinking
          propensities.]

     --(_Times, March 1, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Duke of Norfolk is attacked by the _Hydrophobia_, he can't
     bear the sight of _water_. His Physicians have prescribed Wine.
     The Marquis of _Stafford_, Marquis of _Bath_, and Lord _Thurlow_
     who were present, sanctified this prescription with their most
     hearty consent."--(_Times, Feb. 17, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_A new way to travel expeditiously and safely._

     "The Duke of Luxembourg, wishing to return to his family at
     _Lisbon_, and being apprehensive of going in one of the common
     packets, which, if taken by the French, would probably cost him
     his life, lately applied to Lord Chatham, for a passage in an
     English frigate going to Lisbon. His Lordship very obligingly
     acquiesced, and a few days since the Duke sailed in her from
     Portsmouth. It turns out, however, that this frigate has been
     ordered to _cruise for six weeks_ before she makes for Lisbon:
     and thus is the unfortunate Duke exposed to the risk of the
     elements and the hazard of an engagement, from having employed
     his influence to procure a _safe passage_."--(_Times, May. 10,
     1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There was a rapid trade between Birmingham and France, of base
     coin, carried from the former to the latter in Folkstone vessels,
     and with this coin great part of the Army was paid, but the whole
     is now stopped, and the French Soldiers are paid in
     paper."--(_Times, May 10, 1793._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Duke of Bedford has just completed at Wooburn a Dog-Kennel,
     that far exceeds his Grace of Richmond's in all points of extent
     and magnificence: independently of the immense suite of canine
     apartments, it has _baths_, _coffee rooms_, _billiard room_, &c.,
     and in the centre is a most spacious _riding house_, &c., for the
     equestrian amusement of his friends in bad weather."--(_Times,
     Jan. 31, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We know not the Nobleman or Gentleman alluded to lately in the
     House of Commons, as contracting at £800 a year for supplying his
     Dog-Kennel; but we have heard it said on very good authority,
     that there are two kennels, not far from Brighton, in Sussex,
     which cost very little short of this sum. The Duke of Bedford's
     Dog-Kennel is a mere nothing to either of those alluded
     to."--(_Times, April 13, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "THE FUNERAL!!

     "It was not a Tom Cat, for its melodious squalls plainly proved
     it had long been qualified for the Opera.--It was, however, a
     prodigious favourite with its Mistress. Long had it lived upon
     the fat of the land, in Charlotte St., Queen Anne St., where it
     took great care of Number One! For the space of six years and
     three months did its Mistress indulge it with 'Rivers of Milk;'
     and besides it was a sad Cat, for the matter of that, in skimming
     the cream off everything worth skimming. But as Cats, though they
     may have nine lives, are not immortal, poor Ralph fell sick and
     died--without giving time even for a consultation of Physicians!
     His Mistress, after the first transports of grief were subsided,
     sent for a Surgeon, who opened the body. He reported that poison
     was not the cause, as suspected, of his death, but that he was
     literally killed with kindness. In plain English, he died of a
     Plethora, for he was fat at heart.

     "Away posted the Lady and purchased a piece of ground, just large
     enough to swing a Cat in, at the new burial ground in
     Mary-le-bonne. The charge was trifling, only two guineas; an
     Undertaker provided a coffin in miniature: _Grimalkin_, after
     having lain in state, and several of the frail sisterhood,
     friends of the Lady, partaken of wine and cake, of which plenty
     was provided; a Hearse with White Plumes drove to the door, and
     the Lady, a Chief Mourner, attended by her weeping friends, who
     filled several Mourning Coaches, followed Ralph to the grave last
     Tuesday week, like 'Niobe all in tears;' and after the body had
     been deposited in the earth, though with but 'maimed rites,' 'tis
     true, she returned slowly to the house of mourning.

     "But now comes the sad Cat-astrophe--Whether the Undertaker who
     had _undertaken_ to keep the secret, had blabbed, or whether the
     spectators of this sad ceremony smelt, as the Cat had often done,
     a RAT, so it was, however, that the body had not remained an
     hour, quietly inurned, ere they burst open the hinges of its
     sepulchre, and parading with it to the place from whence it came,
     proceeded to break the windows of the afflicted fair one's
     house: and but for the timely interposition of the Magistrates,
     the Lady, as well as her house, in all probability would have
     been pulled to pieces!!!

     "_N.B._--The above is strictly a matter of FACT."--(_Times, March
     21, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The access to Kensington Gardens is so inconvenient to the
     visitors, that it is to be hoped the politeness of those who have
     the direction of it will induce them to give orders for another
     door to be made for the convenience of the public--one door for
     admission, and another for departure, would prove a great
     convenience to the visitors. For want of this regulation the
     Ladies frequently have their cloaths torn to pieces; and are much
     hurt by the crowd passing different ways."--(_Times, March 28,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Two Ladies were lucky enough to escape thro' the gate of
     Kensington Gardens, on Sunday last, with only a broken arm each.
     When a few lives have been lost, perchance then a door or two
     more may be made for the convenience of the families of the
     survivors."--(_Times, May 8, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We noticed last year the nuisance at the door of Kensington
     Gardens, leading from Hyde Park, and was in hopes, those who have
     the care would attend to it. As the season is approaching when
     company frequent it, we again recommend that an additional door
     should be made, and an inscription put over it 'The company to go
     in at this gate, and return at the other,' by which means the
     press will be avoided, and directions given, that all servants do
     keep away from the doors, who behave with great impertinence to
     their superiors as the company go in. If the gardens are to be a
     public accommodation, surely so trifling an expence can be no
     object. A greater number of seats in the gardens is very
     desirable."--(_Times, April 24, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The public in general, and the ladies in particular, are much
     obliged to the Ranger of Hyde Park, for having taken the hint
     given in this paper towards their accommodation, by ordering a
     new gate to be made, as an entrance into Kensington Gardens.
     This convenience was yesterday much noticed, as there is now one
     gate for the entrance, and another for leaving the gardens, which
     were extremely crowded. But so little regularity was observed in
     the procession of carriages, on the Park Road, that there was a
     general stoppage about four o'clock, for nearly an hour; in the
     throng, several carriages were overset, and many much injured. We
     never witnessed so much confusion on any similar
     occasion."--(_Times, May 4, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "After a very elegant dinner given by the Lord Mayor to the
     visitors at the Mansion House on Monday, there was a ball as
     usual, which was very numerously attended: and was honored by the
     presence of the Turkish Ambassador, several of the _Corps
     Diplomatique_ and many of our own Nobility. The harmony and
     gaiety of the Entertainment was, however, interrupted about two
     o'clock yesterday morning, by the intrusion of a number of
     Gentlemen in the Dancing Room, who had sacrificed too freely to
     the Jolly God, and seemed determined to kick up a riot. They had
     continued drinking till one o'clock in the Dining parlour, and on
     entering the Ballroom behaved in such an improper manner, as to
     make it necessary to call in the Peace Officers to turn them out.
     A terrible uproar ensued; and we understand that two or three of
     the Rioters were sent to the Poultry Compter: and we hope they
     remained there till they recovered their senses."--(_Times, April
     23, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "City Extravagance.--During the Rout, we had almost said Riot, at
     the Mansion House on Tuesday Morning, several very prudent
     Citizens were observed to be out-running the
     Constable!"--(_Times, April 24, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We are informed from Abbey Laddercroft, in Cumberland, that a
     woman called Jane Forrester, who lives in that parish, is now in
     the 138th year of her age. When Cromwell besieged the City of
     Carlisle, 1645, she can remember, that a horse's head sold for 2s
     6d, before the garrison surrendered. At the martyrdom of King
     Charles I., she was nineteen years of age. At Brampton, about six
     years ago, she made oath before the Commissioners, in a Chancery
     suit, to have known an estate, the right of which was then
     disputed, to have been enjoyed by the ancestors of the present
     heir 101 years. She hath an only daughter living, aged 103. And
     we are further informed, that there are six women now living in
     the same parish where she resides, the youngest of whom is 99
     years of age."--(_Times, May 16, 1794._)

Pidcock's Menagerie was the nearest substitute for our present
Zoological Gardens, that London could boast of, and Exeter Change,
where the Exhibition took place, stood on the site now occupied by the
Gaiety Theatre.

     Advt. "Elephants.--Lately arrived in the Rose East Indiaman, a
     most wonderful living Male Elephant, and to be seen in a
     commodious room, over Exeter Change, in the Strand. Admittance 1s
     each. Likewise is lately added to the Grand Menageries, as above,
     two very singular and most astonishing Kanguroos, male and
     female, from Botany Bay. Admittance 1s. Also, just arrived, and
     to be seen in a commodious apartment, under the Great Room, as
     above, three stupendous living Pelicans of the Wilderness, two
     males and a female. Admittance 1s. The three Exhibitions may be
     viewed for 2s 6d. each person. Foreign Birds and Beasts bought,
     sold, &c., by G. Pidcock."--(_Times, May 22, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt. "FOREIGN BIRDS.--Just arrived at No. 1 Coventry St.,
     opposite the Haymarket, among which is, that renowned Bird the
     Ostrich, described in ancient and modern History, to be the
     largest in the world, it measures 9 feet high, and can admit of
     two young Ladies or Gentlemen to ride on its back at a time. This
     Bird exceeds, also, in strength, swiftness, and running, all the
     feathered tribe in the Creation; it has the best plumage ever
     seen on an Ostrich, in this country, for many years. There is
     also a very extraordinary Bird, whose feathers resemble hair, and
     which has very much the appearance of a beast, weighing near 200
     lbs. weight. The Great Horned Owl, described as the inhabitant of
     Babylon: the Royal crowned Crane of Africa, and other curious and
     uncommon Birds: also a very singular Animal resembling a Spider,
     called the Bush Devil; it makes use of its Tail as other Animals
     do their paws. Admittance 1s. each, Children and Servants
     6d."--(_Times, Jan. 5, 1795._)

We get a very vivid description of how illuminations after a great
victory, were managed and received--in those which took place after
Lord Howe's "Glorious first of June."

     Earl Howe's Victory.

     "Several mobs paraded about the streets, at one, and two o'clock,
     yesterday morning, breaking the windows of those who had already
     shown their good wishes to the general cause, by illuminating
     their windows, but had retired to rest. Other houses again,
     belonging to the Quakers, were damaged because no lights were put
     forth. Such acts are contrary to the way of thinking of this very
     respectable class of Citizens. In this outrageous manner did
     several mobs proceed during the early part of yesterday morning,
     to the very great inconvenience of domestic comfort, and
     infringement on public tranquillity."--(_Times, June 13, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Lord Mayor requests the Inhabitants of the City to
     discontinue the Illuminations which have taken place since the
     News received of the very glorious Victory obtained by the
     British Fleet, under the command of Lord Howe. The Lord Mayor
     hopes, that the Public will be satisfied with the general Joy
     which has been so conspicuously expressed, and thinks that a
     further display of it will tend to disturb the peace and good
     order of the Metropolis."--(_Times, June 14, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Illuminations.--The very idea of the horrors attending the cry
     of 'Put out your lights,' made a poor Loyal German, in
     Bedfordbury, watch his little farthing rush-lights, on Wednesday
     last, till a late hour. At length he ventured really to put out
     his lights: prudently pasting up at his door the following notice
     in capitals: 'Two o'clock--gone to bed. If I am to light again,
     pray be so obliging as to ring the bell.'"--(_Times, June 19,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Mr. Wilkes bears the loss of his fine windows with that pleasant
     humour so peculiar to him, and absolutely refuses to prosecute
     any of the mob--'They are only,' said he, 'some of my pupils now
     set up for themselves.'"--(_Times, June 21, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Mr. Editor.

     "A Gentleman of a village near town, in his zeal for illuminating
     on the late joyful Victory by Lord Howe, placed so many candles
     in his windows, and that in so negligent a manner, that by two in
     the morning, three or four of his sashes were burnt. A Constant
     Reader will be favoured by your making room for the following on
     the occasion:--

     "Village Illuminations.

       "Quoth Dick, I scorn such mean display
       As rush-lights, sixes and such trash is;
       I show my zeal in a nobler way--
       I d--n the French and burn my sashes."

     --(_Times, July 14, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The following circumstance occurred last week at Long Milford
     near Bury St. Edmund's: Three young Ladies of that place, one of
     whom is very much celebrated for her mental, as well as personal,
     accomplishments, agreed a few days since, to bathe in a river
     about half a mile distant from the town, there being no private
     accommodation for that purpose in the neighbourhood.

     "An early hour, at which they would be the least liable to be
     discovered by strangers, was determined on, and at four o'clock
     in the morning, they proceeded from home to the appointed place.
     As they walked through the town, they were espied by a
     blacksmith, who, about the same hour, usually gets up to his
     work. Curiosity prompted him to find out whither the fair ones
     were bound: but he did not discover himself to them till they
     were in the river, the perfect images of their mother _Eve_; when
     perceiving him approach, they screamed out, and prudently sat
     down in the water. The Modern _Vulcan_, dead to the distresses of
     the Venus's, determined to divert his uncouth fancy by carrying
     off their clothes, with which he did not return. In this pitiable
     situation they were obliged to remain for near an hour, when a
     poor woman passing that way, on hearing the rude behaviour they
     had experienced, and their consequent embarrassment, procured
     them such necessary articles of apparel, as enabled them to get
     home.

     "The blacksmith has since made a public boast of his exploit,
     saying it was a fine piece of sport: and, owing to his unfeeling
     and brutish conduct, the young Ladies have ever since been
     ashamed to be seen, even by their relations."--(_Times, Aug. 8,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The three _water nymphs_ at Bury have preferred an indictment
     against the blacksmith who stole their cloaths, and this may
     probably turn out a very serious affair, and make poor _Vulcan_
     pay for his _peeping_."--(_Times, Aug. 9, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Bath Charter.--A further degree of power, to be vested in the
     Magistrates, being deemed necessary, a new charter was a short
     time since granted for that purpose. It was sent by the Mail
     Coach, and for want of care in the packing, the impression of the
     Great Seal was knocked to atoms. It was presented to the Lord
     Chancellor to be resealed: but this his Lordship refused unless
     the Mayor and Corporation would petition the Court setting forth
     the reasons. The Charter of Bath conveys the exclusive privilege
     of electing _two Members_ to the British House of Commons to the
     select Corporation of 26, excluding ALL the other
     inhabitants."--(_Times, Aug. 9, 1794._)

We have seen, in the Historical Summary attached to this book, how
gallantly, year after year, Wilberforce attacked slavery. In England,
we see, they euphemised the word _slave_, and called them _Indented
Black Servants_, the same as those poor wretched white slaves, the
"Redemptioners" who sold themselves into bondage in the Plantations.
See the following Advertisement.

     "Absconded from his master's service at Cheltenham, on Friday
     night the 8th August, between the hours of 9 and 10, an INDENTED
     BLACK SERVANT LAD, named TONEY, aged about 19 or 20 years. He is
     very black, and slender made, but with remarkably long feet. He
     went off in a striped dressing jacket, nankeen waistcoat and
     breeches, ribbed cotton stockings, shoes and plated buckles. He
     is articled for 5 years, from the 21 April last; and upwards of
     £30 has been laid out upon him, in having him taught to shave and
     dress, cloathing, and other necessaries for him. A reward of TEN
     POUNDS will be paid to any person who shall apprehend, and
     deliver him, to Mr. Coningham, Sherborne Lane, London; or lodge
     him in any Gaol in this Kingdom, and give notice thereof as
     above. There is every reason to believe, that great art, and
     industry, have been used to seduce, and spirit away, the lad;
     otherwise that he would not have formed a thought of quitting his
     master. If, therefore, any person will give such information, and
     evidence, as shall be sufficient to convict any responsible
     person of having enticed, seduced, or carried away, the negro lad
     above described, a reward of TWENTY GUINEAS will be paid to the
     person so informing, and giving evidence."--(_Times, Aug. 13,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Tuesday last, the corpse of a Gentleman, as it was proceeding
     in a hearse to the Burial Ground, was arrested by a Sheriff's
     officer and his followers, under a warrant as usual granted
     against the _body_. The friends who followed, immediately left
     their coaches, and told the officer, if he chose, he was welcome
     to the body, but he should have neither _coffin_, _shroud_, nor
     any particle in which the body was enveloped; and if he took them
     by force, he should be indicted for a _highway robbery_, as those
     matters were the property of the Executors; nay, they went
     further, and said, that as the deceased had, by his will,
     bequeathed his body to the Executors, no _execution_ would hold
     good against the corpse, the process must be against them. The
     Bailiff, very properly being persuaded that the spirit of the law
     meant a _living_, and not a dead _body_, marched off without
     insisting on the _legality of his capture_. This is the first
     instance of the kind that has happened since the arrest of the
     dead body of a Sheriff of London, not many years
     since."--(_Times, Sept. 5, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_To the_ CONDUCTOR _of the_ TIMES.

     "Sir,--Leaving a shop in the City a few days ago, I fell into a
     reverie with the thoughts of what trade would come to next
     century: how it would be conducted, and by what description of
     persons: as in the shop I had just left, one servant said to
     another, 'Do you know were _Master_ S---- is gone'? Another
     answers, _Mr._ R---- (which was an apprentice) knows: _ask him_.
     Presently came down stairs a maid servant, to enquire whether all
     the _gentlemen_ (meaning the shopmen) would come to dinner. Half
     these _gentlemen_ were booted, as if going to take a morning's
     ride. O tempore! O mores!"--(_Times, Sept. 30, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Glove Manufacturers in the different counties, will no
     doubt make the most of the Princess of Wales's delicate hand: but
     there is something more than ordinarily ludicrous in the
     extravagant anticipation of a Shopkeeper, at the West End of the
     Town, who puts up in Roman characters, "Wedding-ring maker to the
     Princess Caroline of Brunswick."--(_Times, Nov. 15, 1794_.)

The Lady Lade, here mentioned, once rode a race on horseback at New
Market--but lost it:--

     "_Lady Lade_ and _Mrs. Hodges_ are to have a _curricle race_ at
     Newmarket, at the next Spring Meeting, and the horses are now in
     training. It is to be a _five mile course_, and great sport is
     expected. The construction of the traces is to be on a plan
     similar to that by which _Lord March_, now Duke of Queensbury,
     won his famous match against time. The odds, at present, are in
     favour of _Lady Lade_. She runs a _grey mare_, which is said to
     be the _best_ horse in the _Baronet's stables_."--(_Times, Dec.
     20, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The following circumstance is extraordinary beyond parallel:--On
     Tuesday se'nnight died, on her return from Bath, Miss Henrietta
     Dickenson, the fourteenth daughter of the late John Dickenson,
     Esq. of East Place, in Yorkshire, having attained precisely that
     age at which each of her 13 sisters died."--(_Times, Dec. 22,
     1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Crosthwaite Church, in the Vale of Keswick, Cumberland, hath
     five chapels belonging to it. The Minister's stipend is five
     pounds per annum, and _goose grass_, or the right of commoning
     his geese: a _whittle gate_, or the valuable privilege of using
     his knife for a week at any time, at any table in the parish; and
     lastly, a _hardened sark_, or a shirt of coarse linen: whereas
     the Rectory of Winweck, a small village in Lancashire, is the
     richest living in England. The Rector is Lord of the Manor, and
     has a glebe of £1400 annual rent. The whole living is worth £3000
     a year."--(_Times, Dec. 26, 1794._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At Hanworth Booths, a public-house near to Lincoln, a few days
     ago, a man dropped a Boston Bank Bill, value five guineas, which
     momentarily disappeared, and a strict search was made without
     producing any favourable effect. At length a woman present
     recollected a playful _whelp_ chewing something apparently white.
     This observation consigned the life of the poor dog to an
     immediate sentence and he was instantly hanged, and his thorax
     opened, wherein the lost bill was found in a mangled state: but
     nevertheless the purport of the paper was evidently discoverable,
     and cash to the amount was got for it at the Boston
     Bank."--(_Times, Jan. 14, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In the various researches made throughout the house of
     _Langleys_, the seat of John Jolliffe Tuffnell, Esq. in Essex,
     two caskets of family Jewels have been found concealed amongst
     old linen, and near £150,000 in specie, behind the books in the
     library, the chief part of which sum he is supposed to have sold
     out of the funds, with a view of purchasing some advertised
     estates in that county."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is worthy of remark, that the number of deaths in this
     metropolis, within the last few months past, amounts to double
     what it ever has been, within the same space of time, since the
     plague, which desolated London in the last century."--(_Times,
     Feb. 20, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "So great has been the mortality in the metropolis, that the
     Undertakers, like the distressed Prompter we read of, have been
     obliged 'to mow away brown.' A hearse with bay horses was
     actually observed in one of the many melancholy processions in
     the course of last week."--(_Times, March 7, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We are informed there is a Cask now building at Messrs Meux and
     Co.'s Brewery, in Liquor-pond Street, Grays Inn Lane, the size of
     which exceeds all credibility, being designed to hold twenty
     thousand barrels of porter; the whole expense attending the same
     will be upwards of £10,000."--(_Times, April 1, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Numbers, it is said, have gone into the King's Bench and Fleet
     Prison, under an idea that there would be an Act of Grace, on
     account of the Prince's marriage--but no such act is to take
     place."--(_Times, April 27, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In the absence of our Reporter, we understand that Mr.
     Mainwaring, on Monday, presented a Petition to the House of
     Commons signed by above 10,000 Livery Servants, against the
     Employing of Foreigners in that capacity; which not being
     seconded, was not received."--(_Times, April 30, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.--ASTROLOGY. _Mrs._ NEWTON respectfully informs her friends
     and the Public, that she continues at No. 111 in Wardour St.
     Soho, where she may be consulted on Planetary Influence, as it
     relates to, involves, and guides all the Events and Occurrences,
     as Marriages, Legacies, Possession of Wealth, Attainment of any
     particular Desire, the State of an Absent Friend by Sea or Land,
     or whatever can interest our Hopes, or agitate our Fears. The
     private Door in Portland St., and the Name under the
     one-pair-of-stairs window."--(_Times, May 6, 1795._)

Medicinal Waters were in great repute, and if there were any spring,
at all charged with mineral matter, near the Metropolis, it was a good
thing for the proprietor. They existed at the Beulah Spa, Norwood--Spa
fields, Bermondsey--Hampstead--Clerkenwell--Holywell Street, and at
this "Duck and Dog" St. George's Fields. This was a famous suburban
publichouse--much as the Welsh Harp is nowadays--where shooting
matches at small birds was a favourite pastime.

     "Advt.--DOG AND DUCK SPA AND BATH, St. Georges Fields.--J. Hedger
     respectfully informs the Public, that the Gardens of the above
     Spa are open for the reception of those who wish to drink the
     Waters on the spot, at the usual terms of 3d. each person. The
     general salubrity of this Spa is well known: and its happy
     medicinal effects in Scorbutic, Scrophulous, and eruptive
     Complaints: as well as in the Gravel, and several other
     Disorders, have been long and incontestibly established. It will
     be sent to any part of the town in bottles, corked and sealed at
     the pump, on receiving orders as above. The Bath and Bowling
     Green are also open to Subscribers."--(_Times, May 26, 1795._)

The _Mr. Brothers_ mentioned in the following paragraph had been a
Lieutenant in the Navy--and held most extravagantly visionary
religious views--he pretended to have revelations from the Deity, and
set up as a Prophet. He was imprisoned in 1794 for fear he should
create some political disturbance.

     "Many persons were yesterday not a little terrified by _St.
     Paul's_ clock striking 10 three times within an hour, expecting
     every moment, that Mr. _Brothers's_ prophecy was about to be
     fulfilled, which had appointed some dreadful calamity to befal
     the City of London before the 4th day of June instant."--(_Times,
     June 4, 1795._)

In the next paragraph, we must bear in mind the difference in the
value of the Currency then and now.

     "It is with infinite pleasure we hear, that the Bishops in their
     respective dioceses, in conjunction with the opulent pluralists
     and other beneficed Clergy, are advancing the stipends, and
     making contributions, for their necessitous Curates, in these
     times of scarcity. A liberality (or rather an act of justice)
     which most probably originated with the Bishop of London, who
     declared in his Charge to the Clergy of his dioceses, as long
     since as the year 1790, that he would licence no Curate to a
     single church under £50, nor to two under £70 per an."--(_Times,
     Aug. 13, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "That practical bulls are not confined to Ireland, take the
     following specimen: A tradesman of this city, out of charity,
     took a French boy into his family, who was sent out one evening
     in a great hurry for butter. His haste threw him into the kennel,
     butter and all. This was an unfortunate mishap: the dirt he could
     scrape off, but that partial adhesion of water to grease could
     not so easily be removed. At last he hit upon an experiment: The
     maid was bawling out for the butter--'Well, well,' quoth
     _Jaques_, 'you shall have it quickly. I had the misfortune to wet
     it, and have just hung it up on a string, before the great
     stove--it will be dry in a moment, for it dripped before I came
     away.'"--(_Times, Aug. 21, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "What would our forefathers have thought to see a board with this
     inscription:--'_With the nicest taste, and by men most exquisite
     for their professional abilities_' over a _Barber's
     shop_?"--(_Times, Aug. 21, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "EPIGRAM. In utramque paratus.

       "How shall we Dr. Drawl obey,
         His different counsel keep:
       Whose _Text_ advises 'Watch and pray,'
         Whose _Sermon_ bids you 'Sleep.'"

     --(_Times, Aug. 27, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In an advertisement addressed to a young lady who has eloped,
     she is _most earnestly_ requested to return to her most
     _disconsolate parents_: but it is added, that if she does not
     choose to come herself, she is most particularly desired to send
     the key of the _tea chest_!"--(_Times, Sept. 4, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The grand match of Cricket, for one thousand guineas, between
     Kent and All England, was some days since terminated at
     Dandelion,[21] in favour of Kent."--(_Times, Sept. 15, 1795._)

          [Footnote 21: Dent de Lion, Margate.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A Clergyman in Essex, who had long _farmed_ his _tythes_
     alternately among his parishioners, began at last to suspect that
     the rogues endeavoured to keep the income of his _small_ living
     still _less_, and so determined, this year at least, to take his
     _tythes in kind_. To '_Cheat the Parson_' is one of the oldest
     jokes in the history of agriculture, and stands on the same
     authority with the _wittier malevolence_ of _distressing_ him.
     These gentlemen, determined not to be behindhand with their
     predecessors: and, in the last harvest, sent to the Parson to
     take away his _hay_ the moment it was cut down, alleging, that as
     soon as it was cut into _swathes_, it was no longer grass, and
     that he might _turn it, and cook it, himself_. Rather than 'go to
     law' the Parson submitted, and took his next Sunday's text on
     _brotherly kindness_, beginning thus--'Brotherly kindness may be
     divided into _three_ parts--domestic affection--social love--and
     charity: from all which proper inferences may be drawn for
     instruction. Thus brethren, I give you a sermon in _swathes_--you
     may turn it, and cook it, yourselves.' The plan succeeded; his
     parishioners doubled the income, acknowledging it even then less
     than it should be: and thus, what _justice_, and _law_, might
     have kept from him for years, was given up to a _clerical
     joke_."--(_Times, Sept. 19, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A curious circumstance occurred here (Brighton) yesterday. Sir
     John Lade, for a trifling wager, undertook to carry Lord
     Cholmondely, on _his back_, from opposite the Pavilion, twice
     round the Steine. Several ladies attended to be spectators of
     this extraordinary feat of the dwarf carrying a giant. When his
     Lordship declared himself ready, Sir John desired him to _strip_.
     'Strip!' exclaimed the other: 'why surely you promised to carry
     me in my clothes!' 'By no means,' replied the Baronet. 'I engaged
     to carry _you_, but not an inch of clothes. So therefore, my
     Lord, make ready, and let us not _disappoint_ the ladies.' After
     much laughable altercation, it was at length decided that Sir
     John had won his wager, the Peer declining to exhibit _in puris
     naturalibus_."--(_Times, Oct. 2, 1795._)

What would the writer of the following have thought if he could only
have seen Girton and other cognate female Colleges?

     "Nobody can doubt of the use and advantage of Boarding-Schools in
     an immense capital like this. When a Tradesman's daughter is
     taught to jump a dance, to play a tune, and spit French, she is
     fit for any thing--but a wife."--(_Times, Oct. 17, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An amiable great lady, though very accomplished in the English
     language, now and then makes some innocent mistakes. She lately
     asked Lady Jersey if her child would not like _new_
     milk?"--(_Times, Nov. 23, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A Gentleman lamenting the robbery committed at Mr. Erskine's
     house last week, after enquiring the particulars, said, he 'hoped
     none of the Family were alarmed?' 'No,' replied Mr. E., 'but I
     wish _they had_.'"--(_Times, Dec. 23, 1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The name of _Merchant of London_ will be as common in London as
     in France. A fellow who keeps a caricature shop in Oxford-Road,
     has the impudence to write in large characters against his house,
     _Caricature Merchant_.

     "We think the Magistrates are deficient in their duty, when they
     permit such a number of obscene prints to be exposed in their
     windows. It is well known that some of them have likewise rooms
     in their houses, where they expose those prints to debauch the
     rising generation, and have agents at the public seminaries,
     where they introduce them among the boys."--(_Times, Dec. 25,
     1795._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Confectioners begin to tremble from the fear that there will
     not be frost enough to enable them to lay in a stock of ice
     sufficient for the consumption of the ensuing summer. Ice is
     become so much a necessary of life in this climate, that the
     Island has not always produced a sufficient quantity for the
     supply of the inhabitants, and many vessels sent to Norway have
     returned freighted with this new luxury. How would Queen
     Elizabeth's Maids of Honour have stared at iced oranges after a
     hot dinner? They would probably have given them the same
     emphatical appellation with a late English Admiral--_painted snow
     balls_."--(_Times, Jan. 22, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The vast estate of the Duke of Portland, in Marybone, cost his
     ancestors, about 100 years ago, but £9000; and the estate of Mr.
     Berners, (all the streets about the Middlesex Hospital) now £6000
     a year, were in the year 1730, at a rental of £330 a
     year."--(_Times, Jan. 25, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Balls at Southampton are exceedingly lively, and
     well-attended. The young Ladies are particularly favourable to a
     German Dance, called _the Volse_: for squeezing, hugging, &c., it
     is excellent in its kind, and more than one Lady has actually
     fainted in the middle of it."--(_Times, Feb. 19, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Thirteen thousand, five hundred vessels, freighted with
     property, to the value of between 60, and 70, millions sterling,
     sailed from, and arrived at, the port of London, in the course of
     a year."--(_Times, Aug. 29, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Campus Nautica may be sailor-latin for a pleasant exhibition,
     though not quite concordical. A sailor at Oxford some time ago,
     wished to prove the whole University to be sailor-like, and he
     managed it in this way. 'The Gownsmen are _Puppes_, the Tradesmen
     are _Naves_, and the women are _nautoe_.' What though the puns
     don't quite spell, they are not less true for all
     that."--(_Times, Feb. 29, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lately died, in Scotland, _James Anderson_, a well-known
     itinerant tinker, at the astonishing age of 114, after carrying
     his budget since his 14th year."--(_Times, March 12, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We learn from Chester, that the Grand Jury at Conway Assizes
     found an Indictment against the Bishop of Bangor, his Agent,
     Chaplain, and two other Divines, for a riot; and also another
     Bill against the Bishop for an assault!!!"--(_Times, April 5,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There was a Bank Note came into the Bank the other day, the
     interest of which, calculated from the time it had been in
     circulation, amounted to more than £4300."--(_Times, April 26,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Mrs. Mills had fourteen rooms open at her famous Rout and
     Supper, in Piccadilly, the other night. The bill for green-peas
     was seventy-five pounds."--(_Times, May 18, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At one of Lady B----'s elegant Entertainments at Ham-Common,
     amongst other amusements provided for her refined company, were a
     pig with a soaped-tail and a smock-race. A Great Number of young
     women were collected by curiosity, but none of them could be
     prevailed upon to contend for the last prize. They declared
     ingenuously, that they only came for curiosity, as they thought
     her Ladyship and her Company were to run for it."--(_Times, June
     29, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "'I should like to be an _emigré_,' said Mr. V----n the other
     day. 'Why so?' answered a gentleman present. 'Because,' he
     replied, 'the emigrants are the only people in town who know how
     to amuse themselves.'

     "And surely nothing can exceed the refined elegance of the balls
     given by some of the emigrated Ladies, where the widows of twenty
     guillotined poor souls, trip the merry country-dance with all the
     swiftness of a fairy. We must, however, observe that these
     eminent dancers disdain the name of _emigrées_, and call
     themselves _Americaines_, from the property they possess in the
     West Indies, in order to avoid the reproach of thus squandering
     the superfluities of their incomes, which would be better
     employed in comforting so many unfortunate families, driven from
     their own country."--(_Times, Aug. 1, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A DAY AT MARGATE.

     "Rose at seven; went to Sayer's Bathing House, set my name down
     on the slate: took a walk on the Pier. Came back and waited a
     quarter of an hour, then bathed. Not a little delighted with the
     idea of realising in some degree _la theorie des sentimens
     agreables_ by dipping in the same ocean with the sea nymphs from
     the City. Returned to my lodgings to dress for breakfast. Finding
     nobody in the Coffee-room, went back to the Pier, arrived at the
     happy moment, just as a hoy was vomiting out its sick: witnessed,
     as Peter Paragraph says, the Queen of France abuse, like a drab
     of Drury, one of the passengers. The case seemed a strong one,
     and well made out on the part of the Lady, but produced, as far
     as I saw, no conviction.

     "Went to breakfast at Benson's, having first called at the
     Post-Office, and found _not sorted_ on the door: eat my
     shilling's worth, one buttered roll, one dry toasted, and one
     cold ditto: heard who had won, or lost, at whist, and billiards,
     the night before; read the newspapers, and wrote a letter. Went
     over the way to Silver's library, who at my request gave me the
     choice of three rides, observing, that I might take a little of
     each by going round by Kingsgate, the North Foreland, and
     Broadstairs to Ramsgate, then crossing over to the Camp, and
     figuring in by Dandelion. 'What a charming General' (said I)
     'spoilt in a Toyman. How you understand tactics, Mr. Silver!'
     'Used to it all my life, Sir,' (said he with a pleasing
     flippancy) 'plan rides for the company daily all over the
     Island.' Set out with the _carte du pays_ in my pocket: visited
     all the places in it, and finished with the cricket match, and
     the place of the public breakfast. Heard a lady say she had won
     two lotteries, and saw _Tom Lord_ run without winning a notch.
     Went to the ordinary in the gardens at 6s. 6d. a head, for cold
     chicken, and roast lamb, with a haunch of venison given by a
     Noble Lord, who, very kindly, having helped himself to the first
     slice, sent it on. The heat on the cricket ground was intense. I
     was sorry I did not bring my white hat: but a remedy was at hand,
     as I learnt afterwards, if I had been ingenious enough to have
     tied a white handkerchief round the crown of my black one. Having
     finished my second breakfast, I rode home to dine at Margate. The
     green where the breakfast was, was much cooler than the burning
     cricket field, having the advantage of being shaded by the trees
     in the garden at its back; but I found I was out of luck, as
     there was no dancing, and, indeed, at the public breakfast, it
     sometimes happens, that the wagtails, and the yellow-hammers from
     the Capital are so numerous, and frisky, that the humming birds,
     the cockatoos, and the birds of Paradise of the higher order
     won't always hop with them. Got back to Margate on my pony, for
     which I was to pay 18d. a side, and thought as I rode along on
     the sands, where I should dine. The boarding houses were all open
     to me, on paying for a week, or one guinea. This was a great
     temptation: but having been offered a party at the Bowling green,
     on Prospect Place, I conceived this to be a better thing, on
     account of the humours of the loaded pigeon, and the fun of the
     canting machine, and the fireworks at night. I accordingly rode
     to my lodgings to dress, and went immediately to dinner. After
     dinner proceeded to the libraries, where the raffling lists were
     filling fast: was induced to throw in my shillings at Silver's
     and Were's: from thence passed on to Wood's, Surflen's, and
     Garner's. At Surflen's heard music, and several favourite glees:
     from thence to the playhouse, where I was invited to the
     rehearsal of a new piece, which was to be full of good things, if
     it had been suffered to be represented. It was now time to go to
     supper: I accordingly returned to the Coffee House, and from
     thence to the Billiard Room, where there was a violent cry of
     swindler, black-legs, and pickpocket, at which Mrs. Benson
     interfered, whilst her husband walked coolly up and down the
     Piazza, not venturing to intrude. The obnoxious person being
     turned out, and order restored, I retired at one o'clock in the
     morning.

                                                 EPHEMERIS."

     --(_Times, Oct. 2, 1795._)

Fancy seeing an advertisement like the following, in the _Times_
nowadays:--

     Advt.

       "A MARE'S to be SOLD,
       About six years old,
       That's warranted perfectly sound:
       Her height's fourteen hands,
       And an inch as she stands,
       And will trot freely all the way round.
       The Mare's to be seen
       Any time that's between
       The hours of twelve, and of three,
       At the Inn called One Bell,
       In the Strand they will tell,
       Price twenty-five Guineas and three."

     --(_Times, June 17, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "RAMSGATE. (Extract of a letter.)

     "Our early season has already begun, and those who are fond of
     cheap lodgings, have made their appearance _hirundine primâ_. I
     assure you, we have City Misses here at this moment, each of
     whom, in the vain idea of rising 'A new born Goddess from the
     Sea' sowces into salt water every morning. Our company is of the
     _greater_ sort. We have Mrs. Deputy _Plumb_, with her naked
     daughters, who have scarce more cloathing than a _fig_ leaf on
     them, and imitate their great grand-dame Eve in much more even
     than that. Then we have Mrs. _Pop_ from Whitechapel. She came
     down in state in her own job-coach, which was loaded so full with
     _unredeemed_ Articles for family wear, that her dear _pledges_ of
     domestic Love, her daughters, who are the very _duplicate_ of
     herself, in delicacy and beauty, were forced to come in the Hoy.
     But she vows it is so shocking to her feelings, that they never
     shall ride down _no more_ in that nasty sort of water conveyance,
     though she should spend upon their luxury and elegance _ten_,
     out of that _thirty per cent._, which she grinds from the
     necessitous miseries of hard-earned industry. Then we have three
     learned Ladies, who, after the great fatigues of novel-writing in
     the winter, have retired hither to display themselves to the vast
     pleasure, and edification, of some ancient enamoratus, who would
     not yield to Old Q himself in pretensions to gallantry. In truth,
     we begin to look gaily, early as it is: and I would that the
     salt-water, for the benefit of the _Pops_, and the _Plumbs_, who
     frequent our watering places, could as easily wash away the mud
     of vulgarity, and affectation, from their hearts, as it does the
     _rouge_ from their faces."--(_Times, July 8, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "BRIGHTON.--The Prince and Princess of Wales's arrival has been
     talked of much in London; but as yet we have no signs of it here.
     The Duke and Duchess of Marlborough pass their time in a very
     retired manner indeed. His Grace walked for some time yesterday
     evening upon the _Steyne_; the company consisted chiefly of
     opulent Jews, needy fortune hunters, broken-down Cyprians,
     fishermen's daughters, and several fat city-dowdies, from the
     environs of Norton Folgate. Her Grace commands the Play on Friday
     evening, which will be her _first appearance_ in public here for
     this season. The Officers of the Blues are the _great dashers_ of
     the place: they associate with no one but their own Corps. The
     most of them keep their blood-horses, their curricles, and their
     girls. At one o'clock they appear on the parade, to hear the word
     of command given to the Subaltern Guard: afterwards they toss off
     their _goes_ of brandy, dine about five, and come about eight to
     the Theatre, _Vivent L'Amour et Bacchus_."--(_Times, July 13,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday a curious cricket match was played at Montpelier
     Gardens, between 11 of the Greenwich Pensioners, wanting an arm
     each, against the same number of their fellow sufferers with each
     a wooden leg. Not fewer than 5000 people were assembled on the
     occasion, who were highly entertained with the exertions of the
     old veterans of the ocean, who never acted against their most
     inveterate enemy with more energy, each party striving to quit
     the field victorious. The evening coming on, the contest could
     not be decided, but it was so much in favour of the Timber toes,
     as never to be recovered by the dint of Arms."--(_Times, Aug. 10,
     1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Wednesday morning the 11 men with one arm, and 11 men with
     but one leg, were brought by three Greenwich stages engaged for
     that purpose, to the new Cricket Ground, the back of the
     Montpelier Tea Gardens, Walworth, when the match was played out,
     and the men, with one leg, beat the one arms, by 103 runnings.
     After the match was finished, the eleven one-legged men ran a
     race of 100 yards distance, for 20 Guineas, and the first three
     had prizes."--(_Times, Aug. 12, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A new embankment of the River, on the Middlesex shore, from
     Westminster to Chelsea, is just commencing, to prevent the
     encroachments which are making almost daily."--(_Times, Aug. 20,
     1776._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Tuesday morning, a young whale came up the River as far as
     Rotherhithe, and was killed near Execution Dock after having
     overset two boats. It measured 19 feet in length."--(_Times, Aug.
     25, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "This day, the Publicans in the Metropolis, and its vicinity,
     have, conformable to an agreement amongst themselves, withdrawn
     from the Public the accommodation of finding them Pewter Pots,
     agreeable to a long established custom, which will, of course,
     occasion great inconvenience to workmen of every description, who
     are employed in raising buildings, repairing houses, &c.; as well
     as lodgers, and, even, to many respectable families. The profits
     upon Porter, for a length of time, have been very considerable,
     which proves itself beyond a doubt, by their acknowledging, in a
     Bill left at the houses of their customers, that they,
     collectively, sustain a loss, annually, of; £100,000 per annum,
     in Pots, which, by no means, could have been afforded, were not
     their returns somewhat enormous. Under that idea, it is presumed,
     having availed themselves of an opportunity, no longer to be
     liable to losses of that kind, in future, they will, as a
     recompence to the Public, make a reduction in price of the
     necessary article of Porter."--(_Times, Sept. 2, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The late determination of several of the Publicans, to alter the
     established mode of serving their outdoor customers, with quart,
     and pint pots, seems to have been copied from an old resolution
     of a certain Borough, which ran thus: 'Resolved, that the best
     means of preserving our lamps from being broken, is to take them
     down by night, and put them up in the day.' Such of the Publicans
     as have come into this new regulation, seem to estimate the loss
     of a few pots, beyond that of the most respectable of their
     customers. It is, however, very probable, that the Small-Beer
     Brewers will profit by this circumstance, as table-beer may be
     ordered in by those who cannot be served any longer in the usual
     manner."--(_Times, Sept. 21, 1796._)

     "The university of Oxford has lately printed, at its own expence,
     to be distributed gratis among the French Clergy who have taken
     refuge in Great Britain (_ad Usum Cleri Gallicani in Anglia
     exulantis_, as the title states) 2000 copies of the _Vulgate_ of
     the New Testament, which is the Latin version used by the Roman
     Church in all Public Prayers.

     "The Marquis of Buckingham, distinguished for his munificence
     towards the Clergy, has likewise caused to be printed at his
     expence, 2000 copies at the same press, and for the same use. The
     University of Oxford has sent its copies to the venerable Bishop
     of St. Pol de Leon, for distribution, accompanied by a letter,
     analogous to the generous sentiments which dictate this
     honourable mark of esteem for the French Clergy, who are fully
     sensible of the value of the gift."--(_Times, Oct. 25, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Christmas Eve, 1796, will be recorded hereafter, as the Frost
     was more rapid, and more rigorous, it is supposed, than in
     1739-40, or any degree of cold ever experienced in England: the
     quicksilver in a thermometer in Somerset-place sunk from 28 to 4
     degrees above 0 in 12 hours, 3 degrees below the depression of
     the Mercury in 1794 and 28 degrees below the freezing point,
     while it must necessarily have been still lower in the
     country."--(_Times, Dec. 28, 1796._)

Bartholomew fair was first held A.D. 1133, and it was then the
principal mart for the vendors, and buyers, of cloth: in fact the name
of a street, contiguous to Smithfield, where the fair was held, and
which has come down to us,--"Cloth fair," proves it, were there any
need. Of late years it got a nuisance, and public opinion demanded its
dissolution. The shows were discontinued in 1850, and the fair was
proclaimed, for the last time, in 1855. We see by the following
paragraph, from the _Times_, what was thought of it by decent-minded
people, as far back as 1796.

     "BARTHOLOMEW FAIR.

     "The various troops of itinerant Comedians, Showmen, Ropedancers,
     Jugglers, Conjurors, Fortune Tellers, Giants, Dwarfs, wild
     Beasts, learned Beasts, and every _lusus naturæ_ that can be
     collected throughout the Kingdom, with all the appendages of
     immorality, and vice, were on Saturday put in legal possession of
     Smithfield, as the theatre of their achievements. When we add to
     these, the numerous tribe of pickpockets, ring-droppers, and
     sharpers of every description, we cannot but sincerely regret,
     that a scene, productive of so much idleness, and debauchery,
     should be sanctioned by the _letter_ of the law, while the
     _spirit_ of it shudders at the toleration of such excesses.

     "The purposes for which this fair was held by its original tenure
     were of a nature directly opposite to those to which it is now
     prostituted. They went to the encouragement of industry by the
     previous manufacture, and subsequent sale, of necessary articles;
     but they are now made subservient to corrupt the public mind by
     the most abandoned, and dissolute, manners. The motley multitude
     that infests the fair, are the more audacious in their conduct,
     from knowing that they are warranted in their proceedings, at
     least by the _appearance_ of law, which sanctions this annual
     ribaldry.

     "We seriously lament, that this 'congratulation[22] of living
     vapours' so foul and pestilential to society, should be suffered
     to exist in the metropolis, and that the Chief Magistrate of the
     City of London should be annually compelled to degrade his
     dignity as the principal guardian of the public peace and morals,
     by going in state, to license a scene, which constantly
     terminates in the most fatal abuses."--(_Times, Sep. 5, 1796._)

          [Footnote 22: _Sic_ in original.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At the general Meeting of the Magistrates for the division of
     Kensington, on Saturday last, complaints were made not only by
     the Bishop of London, as Lord of the Manor, but by other
     respectable inhabitants thereof, of a nuisance that has prevailed
     from time to time on Wormholt Scrubs by bull-baiting, to the
     great annoyance of the neighbourhood, and the disturbance of the
     public peace, when the Magistrates came to the laudable
     resolution of issuing warrants to the High, and Petty, Constables
     of the Division, requiring them to exert their utmost endeavours
     to prevent the same in future. And, having understood that many
     Publicans within their division had conveyed beer, and other
     liquors, from their respective houses to Wormholt Scrubs, where
     they had retailed it during such bull-baiting, they determined
     not to renew their licences."--(_Times, Sept. 8, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A few days ago some villains broke into the Lea Church,
     Gloucestershire, and stole a quantity of money, the property of a
     company of singers belonging to the said church. A reward of £20
     was immediately offered for discovering the offenders,
     accompanied by a threat that application would be immediately
     made to a conjuror, who lived not far off, to tell who the
     robbers were. The sacrilegious rascals, being convinced that the
     Devil would betray them, by informing the cunning man who they
     were, went in the night to the church, and pushed all the money
     they had taken through a slit in the door, where it was found the
     next morning."--(_Times, Oct. 4, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An ingenious artist has invented a new Coffin, for which he has
     taken out a Patent. In his advertisements he says, he thinks no
     family would like to be without one, and that all who have made
     trial of them, prefer them to anything in that way, and recommend
     them to their friends."--(_Times, Nov. 2, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We hope the Corporation of Bath will avoid a similar mistake as
     happened when the Duke of York was there last year, when the gold
     box was presented to the Duke, but somehow or other, it was
     forgotten to put the _freedom into it_."--(_Times, Nov. 28,
     1796._)

The gushing, and eloquent, George Robins could hardly exceed the
following:--

     Advt. "RUS in URBE PULCHERRIMAM. To be LET furnished, the FIRST,
     SECOND and third Floors with a Kitchen, altogether the most
     convenient and beautiful little Dwelling in Europe. Satisfactory
     references will be required. Enquire at Messrs &c."--(_Times,
     Oct. 14, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lady E. being lately complimented upon her excellent complexion,
     assured her friend it was owing to her custom of dipping into
     cold water every morning. 'But I see,' said she, 'you don't
     believe me.' 'Pardon me,' said the Gentleman, 'if your Ladyship
     said you bathed in the Red Sea, I should have believed
     you.'"--(_Times, Nov. 24, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Last Sunday, agreeable to his sentence in the Ecclesiastical
     Court, a Butcher of Newport Market, did penance in St. Ann's
     Church, for scandalizing a neighbour's character."--(_Times, Dec.
     2, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There is a Club in St. James St. called the _Transalpine_. To be
     a Member, it is indispensable that you have crossed _Mont Cenis_.
     One of the advantages of modern travelling is, to be entitled
     upon your return to waste your time at home, with those who have
     wasted their's abroad. This is the reward of what is called
     seeing the world: namely, seeing those who have seen it
     too."--(_Times, Jan. 25, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A noble Viscount has instituted a Club, called the
     _Ubiquarians_--the Club is ambulatory, and held, in turn, at as
     many chop-houses as there are parishes in the capital. The dinner
     is at half-a-crown, but it costs as much more to those who are
     not good walkers to get at it."--(_Times, Jan. 25, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "It is a very curious fact, that the Turkish custom of taking
     opium is beginning to prevail in what are called the first
     circles of London. This dissipation is spreading wide amongst
     female fashion."--(_Times, Feb. 10, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Gentlemen of the _Rainbow_ (footmen), whose only wear is
     _motley_, have within these few days, shewn evident symptoms of
     uniting. They declare their wages are very inferior in value to
     their services, and threaten their masters with a revolution in
     their conduct. When pampered valets claim an increase of salary,
     on the ground of meritorious service, a general discharge would
     certainly be the most effectual way of quieting their
     complaints."--(_Times, June 6, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We are pleased to be able to commend one change of fashion, at
     least, that which has deprived the servants of Officers of the
     cockade in their hats: and we hope to see it spread, till it
     becomes as singular, as it is absurd, to dress up a _Domestic_ in
     the characteristics of the field!"--(_Times, June 10, 1797._)

     "On Sunday, for the first time, the Civil Power interested itself
     in breaking up what was called Cooper's Fair in the Spa Fields,
     in consequence of the weekly holdings forth of a variety of
     Enthusiasts: such as Mystics, Methodists, Quaking Jews, &c. One
     of the latter description being eager for persecution, insisted
     upon going into confinement, and was conveyed to Clerkenwell
     Bridewell."--(_Times, July 20, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On the 25th of February, died in the Barony of Ivereagh, in the
     County of Kerry, Ireland, in the 112th year of his age Daniel
     Bull Macarthy Esq. He had been married to five wives: he married
     the fifth, who survives him, when he was 84 and she 14, by whom
     he had twenty children, she bearing a child every year. He was
     very healthy: no cold could affect him: and he could not bear the
     warmth of a shirt in the night time, but put it under his pillow,
     for the last seventy years. In company he drank plentifully of
     rum, and brandy, which he called _naked truth_; and when, out of
     complaisance to other gentlemen, he took claret, or port, he
     always drank an equal glass of rum, or brandy, to qualify those
     liquors: this he called a _wedge_. He used to walk eight, or ten,
     miles in a winter's morning with greyhounds, and finders, and
     seldom failed to bring home a brace of hares."--(_Times, Aug. 5,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Sunday morning, about five o'clock, ten Police officers came
     to Norwood in three hackney-coaches, threw down all the gypsey
     tents, and exposed about 30 men, women, and children, in the
     primitive state of man. They carried them to prison, to be dealt
     with according to the Vagrant Act.

     "It appears that they have made good harvest, this summer, of
     female credulity, and have often gained a guinea on a Sunday. Not
     only young girls, panting for matrimony, have been their dupes,
     but the well experienced dames, curious to trace the steps of
     their dear _spouses_, have paid liberally for discovery, as the
     following story will prove: On Thursday, as two Gentlemen, who
     dined at Norwood, were looking out of a window, they observed a
     respectable, well-dressed woman in deep consultation, for a sum
     paid to the old gypsey. They observed the good woman greatly
     agitated, and heard her ask 'If she was sure it was true'? On
     being answered 'As sure as God was in heaven' she gave the gypsey
     a further sum, and made further enquiry, and at last gave her a
     good pocket-handkerchief, and departed seemingly full of
     vengeance. The gentlemen, curious to learn the nature of the good
     woman's consultation, sent for the old gypsey, who candidly told
     them, that she enquired of her if her husband was continent, and
     that she answered he was not, and thereby obtained three presents
     instead of one."--(_Times, Aug. 22, 1797._)

Partridge shooting began on 14th September then, instead of the 1st
as now.

     "FOURTEENTH OF SEPTEMBER.

     "Bemired up to the knees, wetted from head to foot by the
     incessant rain, fatigued and disappointed, the Cocknies yesterday
     returned from their annual field-sport, with very little game
     indeed. A detachment from Cheapside, which had filed off early in
     the morning, toward Hampstead, with the locks of their
     fowling-pieces wrapped up in their handkerchiefs, were so galled
     by the rain, that they got no further than _Old Mother Red
     Cap's_, where they diverted themselves all day with firing from a
     window at some Dutch-pins in the skittle ground. One of these
     pins was mortally wounded in the belly by Ensign _Tight
     Breeches_, a man milliner's foreman, who drove a ball into it, at
     the amazing distance of two yards, without letting the gun fall
     out of his hand.

     "Six journeymen weavers, from Spital-fields, who went in a chaise
     cart, to Ealing, with two guns, were rather more fortunate, in
     respect to Game. They killed a lame hen at Acton, shot one goose
     on the Common, wounded a large sow, and filled their pockets and
     Game-bags with turnips, and cabbages. They imagined they sprung a
     pheasant near Gunnersbury House,--but it proved to be an old
     turkey-cock. At Eleven, they returned, very wet, and very drunk,
     having lost one of their guns, and broke the stock of the other,
     by flinging it at a tame rabbit, in a farmer's yard.

     "Four _gentlemen_ from Leadenhall-Market, who went on the
     long-coach to Woolwich, as there are partridges in that part of
     Kent, killed two crows in Hanging-Wood Lane, blinded a jackass
     near the Warren, and wounded a sparrow, several feathers being
     perceived to drop from its wings. They had tolerable good sport
     with a bat, their terriers being of an excellent breed, and
     having worried a flock of ducks in a ditch, and killed one, they
     returned from _Partridge shooting_ about nine at night, very much
     fatigued indeed.

     "Five gentlemen who went sporting from Kent Bar to Lewisham,
     notwithstanding the wetness of the day, had tolerable good luck.

     "They belonged to the Trained Bands, and depended more upon their
     bayonets, than their guns. At the Half-Way-House they killed a
     fine buck-cat, as he was watching a chaffinch. From the
     Half-Way-House to New-Cross Turnpike, every sparrow was
     affrighted by the noise of their guns: but the rain by this time
     having completely wetted the locks, and damped the powder, they
     were obliged to charge with bayonets, and every tree bore marks
     of their prowess, to the Lion and Lamb at Lewisham, where they
     dined, got drunk, killed two hogs, and a Chinese sow, and, in the
     evening, were carried home by the Lewisham stage.

     "St. George's Fields, once the mart of London sportsmen, being
     now almost covered with houses, very few prentice-boy gunners
     were seen there. The birds which now inhabit that quarter, are
     many of them jail-birds, and if the new Magistrates were to sport
     their authority a little more than they do, they might bring down
     some of the most dangerous game with which a neighbourhood was
     ever infested.

     "Very few were the sportsmen on Blackheath, to the great joy of
     sheep and jackasses, and to the safety of stage-passengers, who
     were often endangered by the random shot of those _one-day_
     sportsmen. As to partridges, their lives were in no danger, not
     one of those sportmen out of fifty knowing the difference between
     a partridge and a crow; besides, as their dogs are generally of
     the bull-dog kind, of the terrier, or the fox breed, the game are
     in very little danger of injury from their ability."--(_Times,
     Sept. 15, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There will be more Powder expended to-day against the innocent
     Partridges, than would drive Buonaparte and his crew out of Asia.
     The Bank Clerks, India House Jemmies, Men Milliners, and tippy
     Apprentices, most loudly complain against the enclosures of that
     _Cockney Manor_, St. George's Fields, bewailing the loss of their
     sport, and lamenting that there is not a sparrow left to exercise
     their prowess upon."--(_Times, Sept. 14, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "So great is the rage for watering places, that the Margate
     Packet had, the week before last, one hundred and fifty-two
     passengers on board, who were 27 hours on their passage; during
     the greater part of the time, it rained so as to drive them under
     deck, and made them as _comfortable_ as the people in the black
     hole at Calcutta."--(_Times, Sept. 16, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Thursday evening last, one _George Kent_, a Callender, in New
     Compton St., St. Giles's, eat, for a trifling wager, the enormous
     quantity of 30 boiled eggs, a two-penny loaf, and a quarter of a
     pound of butter, in the short space of 27 minutes, being three
     minutes less than the time given to perform it."--(_Times, Oct.
     2, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     (Advt.)

     "GUILDHALL.

     "THREE GUINEAS will be given for a Gentleman's Ticket to Dine
     this Day at Guildhall, by sending it before 12 o'clock, to Mr.
     Short, Hair Dresser, Bearbinder-lane, near the Mansion
     House."--(_Times, Nov. 9, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Never could any Country boast an equal respect, and even
     partiality, for _age_, with our own. Our favourite Sultanas are
     grandmothers, at the least: the Actresses that charmed our
     grandfathers return to the stage in the full bloom of their
     wrinkles: and we have boys of seventy, and fourscore, in our
     regiments."--(_Times, Nov. 15, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Amongst the great, and worthy, pluralists of the Church, few can
     equal, and none exceed, in spiritual, and temporal, fortune,
     young Dr. _Price_, nephew to Bishop _Barrington_;[23] he is
     Canon, and Prebendary, of Salisbury, worth £300 per annum, Golden
     Prebendary of Durham, worth £1200 per annum: and Rector of
     Milksham, worth £1000 per annum, and is possessed of a temporal
     fortune of between 2 and £3000 per annum!

          [Footnote 23: Shute Barrington. Bishop of Llandaff 1769.
          Bishop of Salisbury 1782. Bishop of Durham 1791.]

     "Dr. Moss, a lately appointed Residentiary of St. Paul's, worth
     £1200 per annum, is Chancellor of the Diocese of Wells,
     Prebendary of Wells, Westminster, and Salisbury, and also Canon
     Residentiary of the latter, to which he was elected when he was
     about 24 years of age, on the resignation of his father. In
     addition to the above preferments, Dr. Moss is also rector of
     Newington in Oxfordshire, worth £600 per annum. The present
     Bishop of Wells, with his family, it is computed has received
     upwards of £100,000 out of the Cathedrals of Salisbury and Wells.
     He strongly insisted that his son should continue his Canonry of
     Salisbury, which Mr. Pitt would not allow."--(_Times, Nov. 17,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In investigating a trivial cause yesterday, at Bow-Street,
     arising from an infamous practice, which we hope will be
     represented to Lord Kenyon, of issuing Marshalsea Court Writs for
     debts of 8s. or 12s., a fraud of some importance was discovered.
     It appears that it was the custom of Publicans, when they want to
     let their houses, to get a number of people together, whom they
     treat with beer.

     "They call them show-men, and this is done for the purpose of
     deceiving the persons who come to view their house, and to make
     them suppose it has good custom."--(_Times, Nov. 23, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.

     "PROCESSION TO ST. PAULS.[24]

     "To BE LET, a DRAWING-ROOM about 20 feet long, the windows nearly
     level with his Majesty's Carriage. Twenty Persons may be
     comfortably accommodated. It is wished by the Proprietor of the
     above Premises, that the Party may be of their own selection: a
     strange mixture of Company on these occasions is unpleasant to
     most Families who wish to enjoy their own society. Price 20
     Guineas. Enquire at Salmon's Goldsmith, No. 49 facing Old Round
     Court, Strand, between York buildings and the Adelphi."--(_Times,
     Dec. 8, 1797._)

          [Footnote 24: To return thanks for Admiral Duncan's victory
          over the Dutch fleet.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt.

     "ROYAL PROCESSION.

     "One of the grandest sights since the days of Queen Anne, and in
     all probability we shall never see the like again. Those Ladies
     and Gentlemen who are desirous of being accommodated with one of
     the best views in the City to see the procession (not only as it
     passes by, but of seeing the Company go into Church), will apply
     to No. 28 Ludgate-Street, the corner of Ave Maria-Lane, next the
     Churchyard. The Front Seats in the Dining Room are only 2
     Guineas, the second seats 1-1/2 guinea, third seats 1 Guinea:
     seats in the shop, which is very pleasant 1 Guinea each: a two
     pair front room, with 3 windows, for a large party, at 20 Guineas
     for the day, an excellent prospect. Also a 3 pair of stairs front
     room which has a capital view of the Churchyard, for 12 Guineas.
     Ladies and Gentlemen will be accommodated with sight of the
     procession at the west end of the Town, where they may have small
     rooms, or large, on moderate terms, that is to say, a very
     handsome dining-room for 15 Guineas, a small room adjoining for 5
     Guineas, large room, 2 pair, for 10 Guineas, small room adjoining
     for 4 Guineas, by applying to Mr. Farrance, Pastry Cook, the
     Corner of Spring Gardens, Charing Cross."--(_Times, Dec. 12,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The eight cream-coloured horses belonging to the King's
     State-Coach, are every morning drove to St. Paul's Church to
     train them to the _flags_ in Queen Ann's Church-yard."--(_Times,
     Dec. 14, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In England the amount of French prisoners is 23,600. In France
     the British do not exceed 1500."--(_Times, Dec. 14, 1797._)

In an article of half a column length (_Times_, Jan. 8, 1798),
treating of the French Prisoners of war--the following is the
concluding paragraph:--

"In respect to the quantity of their allowance, we state, on the most
certain authority, that their subsistence is a pound of bread, and
half a pound of good fresh beef, _every day in the week_, together
with a full proportion of vegetables. A subsistence which thousands of
our own poor would be glad to have."

     "The firm conduct of our Government in refusing any longer to
     make advances for the maintenance of French Prisoners, has had
     the good effect of obliging the Executive Directory to come
     forward with the necessary supplies, and as the French agents
     have now the whole management of this concern, we shall no longer
     be subject to their odious calumnies against the humanity of this
     country.

     The number of French prisoners in England, amounts to about
     22,000; the Dutch prisoners are about 2,500. The daily cost of
     these men, since the French agents had the charge of them, has
     been £1,370 sterling a day (about 1s. 1d. each): and their annual
     expence is upwards of One Million sterling. The number of English
     prisoners in France does not exceed 4000."--(_Times, Feb. 27,
     1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Southampton was thrown into consternation on Saturday morning,
     by an event which was variously reported by different narrators
     in the course of the day; but, 'ere night, all ideas of French
     spies, _false Emigrants_, &c., subsided, and the event turned out
     to be 'that three French prisoners from Porchester, had made
     their escape to Southampton.' A party of pleasure had engaged
     _Wassell's_ vessel to go to the Isle of Wight. At an early hour
     on Saturday morning, on repairing to the Quay, the man could not
     discover his pleasure boat. Every one was concerned for his loss,
     and many hours elapsed before any tidings could be heard of her,
     when some fishing boats gave information that they had met her
     near Calshot Castle, about three o'clock in the morning, but had
     no suspicion she had been run away with. In the evening, news
     arrived, that in steering, to keep as far from Spithead as
     possible, the Frenchmen were near running on shore at _Ride_.
     This circumstance convinced the pilots that _Wassell_ was not on
     board when they went to her assistance, secured the three French
     men, and saved the vessel for the owner."--(_Times, July 2,
     1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "'To which university,' said a lady, some time since, to the late
     sagacious Dr. Warren, 'shall I send my Son?'--'Madam,' replied
     he, 'they drink, I believe, near the same quantity of port in
     each of them.'"--(_Times, Feb. 19, 1798._)

It was in this year that Jenner first wrote on _Vaccination_. The
following paragraph refers to _Inoculation_, which was introduced into
England, circa 1718, by Lady Mary Wortley Montague, who had seen it
practised in Turkey:--

     "_Memento narare multis officium alterius._--Mr. W. Holt,
     Surgeon, of the parish of Tottenham High Cross, has generously
     undertaken (within the last two months) to inoculate the poorer
     part of the inhabitants of the parish, for the small pox, which
     he has done (and that gratis) to the amount of some hundreds, the
     whole of which number have done well, not one patient excepted.
     The above act is praiseworthy, and will redound much to Mr.
     Holt's honour. It is to be hoped the above example will be
     followed by other Medical Gentlemen, if so, in a few years we
     shall not see, as we now daily do, the ill-effects of that
     dreadful disease, the small pox, in the natural way."--(_Times,
     March 28, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Previous to the Humane Society's Procession (at the London
     Tavern, next Tuesday) of those who have been restored to life
     _this_ year, an _Introductory Dialogue_, written after the manner
     of Virgil's pathetic and beautiful pastorals, by John Gretton
     Esqre, will be spoken by two young Gentlemen. Rising genius was
     fully experienced at the last Anniversary. What then must not be
     the gratification to a British heart, where to the solemn scene
     of our resuscitated brethren,[25] is superadded the efforts of
     these able advocates in the cause of humanity, and the sublime
     views of this most excellent Institution?"--(_Times, April 14,
     1798._)

          [Footnote 25: The persons recovered during the year, by the
          instrumentality of the Society, appeared in solemn
          procession at the anniversary dinner.]

       *       *       *       *       *

     "ANECDOTE.

     "It is a fact of which we can assure our readers, that the
     following extraordinary Letter was sent to a worthy Baronet not a
     hundred miles from Whitehall. It was tied round the neck of an
     unfortunate animal, who, we are sorry to say, appears to have
     been made the victim of party malice, and the unfeeling passions
     of men:

     "THE RATS LETTER.

     ("Health and F_rat_ernity.)

     "Sir,--I am a despe_rat_e _Rat_, g_rat_ified indeed in the
     present opportunity of cong_rat_ulating you, though lately
     sepa_rat_ed from my family and connexions, having been caught in
     the g_rat_ing of Mr. Pitt's cage, in Downing St., prost_rat_e at
     his feet, I escaped death, and even cast_rat_ion, in the
     conside_rat_ion that I belong to your worthy f_rat_ernity, and
     upon condition that I should inform you of certain truths,
     however g_rat_ing. Since the discovery of the conspi_rat_ors,
     your o_rat_ions have not been unde_rat_ed, for they have not been
     _rat_ional. If your treaty with them has been _rat_ified, you
     will be well sc_rat_ched, and so forbear p_rat_ing for the
     present. Besides it is a deside_rat_um that you should have
     nothing to say to Mr. G_rat_tan, and that you should not
     Co-ope_rat_e with the Irish-Ma_rats_. Let your nar_rat_ions
     concerning _Rat_isbon, or _Rat_stadt, be mode_rat_e, and
     endeavour to make repa_rat_ion for all the nonsense you have
     talked, and the mischief you have not ope_rat_ed. Sequest_rat_e
     yourself with your vene_rat_ed old Aunts, and deal out _rat_ions
     of oatmeal, and cheese, to your p_rat_ing b_rat_s, whom everybody
     commise_rat_es, and arbit_rat_e between cowherds, and bullock
     drivers. Demonst_rat_e that you are a wise man in your
     gene_rat_ion: Exempli g_rat_ia, this year, having been beat blind
     by the bulk of bullocks, try next to run down your successor in a
     race of amelio_rat_ed _Rats_. Full of admi_rat_ion, and great
     g_rat_itude, I give you the f_rat_ernal hug, and _rat_e myself,
     with great conside_rat_ion, without alte_rat_ion. Your g_rat_eful
     F_rat_er (G_rat_is)

                                               "Democ_rat_."

     --(_Times, June 4, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "We are sorry to hear that the _Rat_ that wrote the famous
     letter, was cruelly murdered by the enraged servants. The _Rat_
     is now said to have been over-driven, and made mad in Downing
     St., in order that he might scratch the Knight into the
     _Cat_-aphobia. He anxiously expects the _cat_-astrophe. The
     _Rat_'s letter has very much exaspe_rat_ed the Worthy Baronet to
     whom he addressed it."--(_Times, June 8, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Colonel Twiss, and other officers of the engineers, have been
     employed by government to examine a proposition made by a Mr.
     Dodd, for forming a _tunnel under the River Thames_, from
     Gravesend, to Tilbury."--(_Times, July 16, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "_Tower Hill_ is soon to lose that name, and, in compliment to
     the Trinity House, it is in future to be called _Trinity
     Square_."--(_Times, July 16, 1798._)

They knew how to puff--in those days:--

     "Advt.--Thirty Thousand Pounds gained for Five shillings, without
     a Lottery. A Gentleman of the Navy had, for some time, been
     paying his addresses to a Lady of Fortune, and gained her
     affections: being suddenly ordered off to the West Indies, the
     marriage was deferred until his return. On arriving at St.
     Domingo, he was attacked by the Yellow Fever, which appeared
     externally in scabby eruptions, arising from living in too free a
     manner in that destructive climate, which disfigured his face so
     much, that, on his return to England, the Lady was disgusted, and
     broke off the match. This turn so affected the Gentleman that a
     slow nervous fever resulted, which reduced him so low that his
     recovery was despaired of. Fortunately, an officer of the Guards,
     his intimate friend, calling on him, told him he thought the
     perusal of Dr. Brodum's Guide to Old Age would be of service:
     and, in consequence, purchased a Guide for five shillings, which,
     with the aid of the Dr.'s Botanical Syrup, completely restored
     him, and on calling on the Lady after his recovery, she was so
     well-pleased at his healthy appearance, as to immediately consent
     to unite herself with him, and make over a fortune of
     £30,000."--(_Times, Nov. 20, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A story is told at Brighton of a certain Baronet having been
     most cruelly imposed upon by some young Bucks, at that place, who
     sent him a pretended letter from the wife of a Dentist,
     requesting a tender interview. The Baronet flew to her lodgings
     on the wings of love, but the first person he met was her
     husband. The Baronet, with a ready attention to professional
     circumstances, said he came to ask advice for the _toothache_:
     the operator rejoined, that an extraction was the most certain
     cure, and the unfortunate Baronet actually submitted to an
     incision in his jaw, to save the rest of it from being
     broken."--(_Times, Nov. 30, 1798._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "This being the first day of May, Mrs. Montague will give her
     annual entertainment of roast beef, and plum-pudding, to the
     Chimney-sweepers of the Metropolis, in the court yard of her
     house in Portman Square, in commemoration of discovering her
     child among them, long after it had been trepanned
     away."--(_Times, May 1, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The donations given by Mrs. Montague, of Portman Square, every
     May-day, proceed from pure benevolence towards the distressed
     poor. The story, which has been generally believed, of her having
     once lost a child, who was trepanned from her house, is wholly
     unfounded."--(_Times, May 2, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The Lady Mayoress is in the straw, and the _Bambino_, according
     to the customs of the City, is to be rocked in a cradle of solid
     silver. This is a very ancient privilege, and, as it costs the
     City about Five Hundred Pounds, the Aldermen will probably look
     twice, before they elect family men again with their wives in the
     family way."--(_Times, July 1, 1799._)

What occasioned the following?

     "Such senseless extravagance as _eating Bank notes_ has not been
     known since the French Courtezan, who curled her hair with them:
     or the days of Cleopatra, who swallowed a jewel as a rich
     repast."--(_Times, Aug. 22, 1799._)

The singular belief that used to obtain, and still is prevalent,
especially among the lower classes, that a man might sell his wife to
any bidder, provided that he did so in open market, and with a halter
round her neck, was in full force at the latter end of the 18th
Century. That this belief has not died out may be seen in an article
on "Wife Selling," by my brother, in "All the year Round" 20th Dec.
1884, in which he cites cases as recently as 1862, 1870, 1881--and two
in 1882--in one of which, the wife was sold for a glass of ale, and
the other, for a penny and a dinner.

     "By some mistake, or omission, in the report of the Smithfield
     Market, we have not learned the average price of wives for the
     last week.

     "The increasing value of the _fair sex_ is esteemed by several
     eminent writers as the certain criterion of increasing
     civilization. Smithfield has, on this ground, strong pretensions
     to refined improvement, as the price of Wives has risen in that
     market from half a guinea, to three guineas and a
     half."--(_Times, July 22, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "An Hostler's wife, in the country, lately fetched _twenty-five
     guineas_. We hear there is to be a sale of wives soon at
     Christie's. We have no doubt they will soon _go off_
     well."--(_Times, Sept. 19, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Friday a butcher exposed his wife to sale in Smithfield
     Market, near the Ram Inn, with a halter about her neck, and one
     about her waist, which tied her to a railing, when a hog-driver
     was the happy purchaser, who gave the husband three guineas, and
     a crown, for his departed rib. Pity it is, there is no stop put
     to such depraved conduct in the lower order of people."--(_Times,
     July 18, 1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Saturday evening last, John Lees, steel-burner, sold his wife
     for the small sum of 6_d._ to Samuel Hall, fell-monger, both of
     Sheffield. Lees gave Hall one guinea immediately, to have her
     taken off to Manchester the day following by the coach: she was
     delivered up with a halter round her neck, and the clerk of the
     market received 4_d._ for toll. It would be well if some law was
     inforced to put a stop to such degrading traffic!! (Sheffield
     Register)"--(_Times, March 30, 1796._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "At the last sale of wives there was but a poor show though there
     were plenty of bidders. One alone went off well, being bought by
     a Taylor, who outbid eight of his competitors."--(_Times, Dec. 2,
     1797._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     Advt. "To the Curious. J. Harrison begs leave to inform his
     Friends, and the Public, that he has, for sale, a great variety
     of grafted Gooseberry Plants, in pots, with red, white, and black
     Currants growing on each, the fruit of the finest flavour: and
     handsome standard Currant Trees, 5 feet high, with red, white,
     and black, fruit on each, likewise dwarf Apple Trees, handsome
     plants, suitable for the borders of pleasure gardens, being full
     of fine fruit. Gentlemen and Ladies are invited to come and view
     his plants, now the fruits are on them, at his Nursery, opposite
     the Turks Head, half-way to Deptford Upper Road."--(_Times, Aug.
     9, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "When the order for the embargo was received at Gravesend, two
     hoys, the one for Margate, the other for Ramsgate, lay off the
     town, and were immediately subjected to the restriction. One had
     nearly 200 persons on board, the other, upwards of 150; they were
     obliged to land, and the place not affording accommodation for so
     large, and unexpected, an influx of company, a whimsical scene of
     confusion, disorder, and embarrassment, ensued: some in carts,
     &c., got on to Rochester, and Canterbury: but, owing to the
     march, and embarkation of troops, all the carriages, and horses,
     on the road were engaged, and several days elapsed before these
     unfortunate people reached the place of their
     destination."--(_Times, Aug. 19, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lately died at Lynn, in her 78th year Miss Mary Breese. She
     never lived out of the parish she was born in, was a remarkable
     sportswoman, regularly took out her shooting license, kept as
     good greyhounds, and was as sure a shot, as was in the county. At
     her desire, her dogs, and her favourite mare, were killed at her
     death, and buried in one grave."--(_Times, Oct. 8, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Late on Sunday evening last a beautiful Circassian arrived at
     the Turkish Ambassador's Hotel. She was brought from Smyrna in
     the '_Princess_,' Capt. W. Lee, as a present from the Grand
     Seignior to his Excellency the Ambassador. She is peculiarly
     elegant, and beautiful, and was escorted hither by six black
     eunuchs. The Ambassador showed great attention to Capt. Lee on
     account of the care he had taken of his mistress."--(_Times, Dec.
     19, 1799._)

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The _fair Circassian_ has not yet made her appearance in public.
     A very splendid equipage is now building in Long Acre for her.
     Several of our dashing young men of fashion have offered
     themselves as drivers to the Eastern beauty."--(_Times, Dec. 24,
     1799._)

I have not been able to trace the fate of this lady--she was only a
nine days' wonder in fashionable society.




INDEX.


      A

      Abington, Mrs., the actress, 189, 190

      "Academy of Sciences and Belles Lettres," 222

      Actresses of good birth, 194, 195

      Adams, Daniel, 23

      Advertisement, curious, in the _Times_, 325, 330

      Albany, Duchess of, 3

      Aldermen, regulate price of bread, 148;
        visit fraudulent bakers, 150

      Aliens, 16, 22

      All fours, 180

      Ancient Music, Concert of, 226

      Androides, 228

      Anecdote of Lady E., 330

      Angerstein, John Julius, 248, 249, 261

      Anson, Hon. Thomas, 59

      Anspach, Margrave of, 147, 193, 216

      Apprentice, cruel treatment of an, 268

      Archer, Lady, 71, 166, 167, 168, 169, 177, 179

      Arms, seizure of in Ireland, 44

      Army, strength of, 36;
        patriotic gift to, by ladies, 95;
        convicts enrolled, 95;
        French Emigrants enrolled, 95;
        curious enlistment, 97, 98;
        kidnapping, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106;
        young officers, 107, 108;
        soldiers' bread, 109;
        bounty for soldiers, 110;
        courtmartial, 111;
        sale of commissions, 111, 112;
        hair powder dispensed with, 130

      "Army of England," 42

      Arnold, Dr., musical composer, 196, 207

      Artificers, enticing, punishment for, 270

      Ashurst, Mr. Justice, 34

      Assessed taxes, 131, 132

      Assize of bread, 148

      Astrology, 316

      Automata, 228, 229


      B

      Baddeley, the actor, 187

      Bailiffs imprisoned, 268

      Bakers, fraudulent, 150

      Bakewell, Robert, agriculturist, 299

      Ballet and Opera, 204, 211

      Bangor, Bishop of, indicted for riot, 322

      Bank Bill, singular recovery of, 315

      Bank of England, 37, 44

      Bank notes, issue of, 37;
        £1 and £2, 237;
        interest on a, 322;
        eating them, 342

      Bannister, the actor, 188

      Barber's shop, inscription over, 318

      Baring, Sir Francis, 288

      Barrington, the pickpocket, 245

      Barrymore, the actor, 188

      Barrymore, Lord, his wager, 298

      Bartholomew Fair, history of, 328;
       description of, 329

      Bartolozzi, 220

      Bath, its charter, 312;
        its freedom, 330

      Bath, knights of the, installation supper, 114

      Bathing-ladies, 312

      Bear's grease, 58

      Beau, a, 56

      Beef, price of, 146

      Bedford, Duke of, 24, 25, 61, 185, 298, 306

      Bellamy, Mrs., 190

      Bernard, Mrs., the actress, 190

      Bigg, W.R., _A.R.A._, 227

      Billington, Mrs., 189, 225

      Black servants, (Indented), 313

      Blood, a, 54

      Boarding schools, advance in price of, 146

      Boarding schools, lady's, 320

      Bonaparte, (see Napoleon)

      Bond Street Lounge, the, 64, 76

      Borouwlaski, Jos., 222

      Boswell, James, 230

      Bounty for soldiers, 110

      Bourgeois, Sir Francis, 196

      Bow Street Runners, 244

      Bowes, Mr., 185

      Bowyer, Admiral, 26

      Box-lobby loungers, 200

      Bread, household, recommended by Privy Council, 138;
        subscriptions to reduce price of to the poor, 139;
        noblemen, &c., pledge themselves to eat household bread, 140;
        to make good bread, 141;
        to consume but little, 143, 144;
        bread used at the Royal table, 147;
        price regulated by the Aldermen, 148;
        assize of bread, 148;
        short weight of, 150

      Bridgewater, Duke of, 61

      Bridport, Lord, 38, 39

      Brighton, dress, 52;
        company at, 326

      Brothers, Lieut. (a pretended prophet), 317

      Bruni, vocalist, 209

      Brunton, Miss, the actress, 190

      Buck, a, 54

      Buckingham, Marquis of, 42

      Buckinghamshire, Lady, 166, 167, 168, 172, 177, 179

      "Bull," a, 318

      Bullock stealing, punishment for, 270

      Burke, Edmund, 16

      Bute, Lord, 304

      Butter, price of, 146


      C

      Cambacérès, 50

      Camelford, Lord, 93, 94

      Camperdown, Victory of, 42

      "Campus nautica," 321

      Cant phrases, 200, 201

      Canterbury, Archbishop of, 178

      Capital punishment, 246, 265, 266

      Card money, 176

      Cards, unstamped, 181

      Caricature sellers, 320

      Carlisle, Earl of, 43

      Carlisle House, 218, 220, 222, 223

      Cask, large one at Meux's Brewery, 316

      Cassino, 180, 181

      Cat, funeral of a, 306

      Chamber Music, 225

      Chaplaincy, sale of, 112

      Charing Cross, kidnapping riots at, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102

      Charlotte, Queen, 2, 5, 6, 7, 26, 31, 33, 44, 294

      Chatham, Earl of, 29, 305

      Choice spirit, a, 54

      Christmas boxes, 117

      Chudleigh, Miss (afterwards Duchess of Kingston), 76

      Cibber, Mrs., 190

      Cipriani, 220

      Circassian, the fair, 344

      Clarence, Duke of, 189, 194, 209, 216, 295

      Clergyman's stipend, curious, 315

      Clerical pluralists, 335

      Clive, Mrs., the actress, 189

      Clothes, cost of, 62

      Clubs, the _Transalpine_, 331;
        the _Ubiquarian_, 331

      Coals, price of, 155, 156

      Cockade, disuse of, 331

      Coffin, a patent, 330

      Coin, base, 239, 240, 241, 242, 272, 273, 306

      Commercial failures, 232, 233, 234

      Commissions in the army, sale of, 111, 112

      Common Council and dinners, 136;
        offer bounty for fish brought to market, 137;
        abolition of dinners, 142

      Concannon, Mrs., 171, 172, 177, 179

      Concerts, 226

      Convicts, cost of transportation, 269;
        a jocular, 271

      Cooper's Fair, abolition of, 332

      Cornelys, Mdme., 212, 217, 219, 222, 223

      Cornwallis, Lord, 45

      Corpse seized by bailiffs, 313

      Corresponding Society, 29

      "Coterie, the," 221

      Court dresses, 59

      Covent Garden Theatre, 31

      "Coventry Act," the, 249

      Cricket match for 1000 guineas, 319;
        one-armed and one-legged match, 326

      Croix, M. de la, 42

      Crop, a, 57, 61, 62, 64, 128

      Crouch, Mrs., 189, 205

      "Culloden," Mutiny on board of the, 85, 86

      Cumberland, Duke of, 2-6, 220, 256

      Curates, increase of stipend, 318

      Curtis, Sir Roger, 25, 26


      D

      Dandy, a, 56

      Death, singular, 315

      Deaths, extraordinary number of, in 1795, 316

      Debry, Jean, 66

      Debtors, 266, 267, 316, 336

      Dentist, anecdote of a, 341

      Derby, Lord, 185, 189

      Devonshire, Duke of, 129

      Didelot, a dancer, 212, 213

      Dignum, the vocalist, 196

      Dillon, Viscount, 111

      Dimsdale, Sir Harry (Mayor of Garratt), 289, 290, 292

      Dockwra, 21

      Dogs, tax on, 128

      Dog-kennels, 306

      Dollars, forgery of, 238;
        issue of, 235, 236, 237, 238

      Don Giovanni, opera of, 209

      Douglas, Capt. Sir A., 87

      Draper's Company, the, 139

      Drury, Anecdote of Captain, 91

      Drury Lane Theatre, 195

      Duels, 275, 276

      Duncan, Admiral, 42

      Dundas, Mr., 84

      Dunstan, Sir Jeffrey (Mayor of Garratt), 292

      Durham, Bishop of, 213, 214


      E

      East India Company, 138

      Effingham, Lord, 54

      Egremont, Lord, 185

      Elcho, Lady, 176

      Elections, see Politics

      Elliston, the actor, 188

      Elopement, advertisement respecting an, 319

      Elopement with a negro, 268

      Embargo, 344

      Emigrants, French, 276, 277, 278, 279, 322

      Enlistment, curious, 97, 98

      E. O., 173, 181, 182, 185

      Epigram, on a dull sermon, 319

      Erskine, Mr., robbery at the house of, 320


      F

      "Factotum, Isaac," 300

      Farms, large or small, 137, 138

      Faro, 167, 168, 169, 170, 171, 172, 173, 174, 179

      Farren, the actor, 190

      Farren, Miss, 189, 197

      Fast, General, 47

      Feadle, Jimmy Lincum, 56

      Feathers, 75

      Fees to servants, 160

      Fitzgerald, Lord Edward, 44

      Fitzherbert, Mrs., 196, 305

      Fitzroy, Lady Ann, 107, 108

      Food, 135

      Food riots, 28, 261

      Footmen, dissatisfaction of, 331

      Forestalling, 150, 152

      Fox, Charles James, 5, 25, 27, 34, 169

      France, war with, 18

      Franking letters, 121, 122, 123

      Frederick the Great, 204

      French emigrants, 13, 14, 15, 22, 276, 277, 278, 279, 338

      French, Invasion of Ireland and defeat, 45, 46

      French prisoners, numbers in England, 50, 337

      French Revolution, 8, 13, 17, 21, 22

      Frith, John, threw a stone at the King, 10

      Frost, great, 4, 37, 328

      Funds, the, 234, 235

      Fuseli, H., 227


      G

      Gallini, Sir John, 208, 209

      Gaming, 166

      Gardner, Admiral, 26

      Garratt, account of, 290;
        election for, 289, 290, 291, 292

      Gell, Admiral, 87

      George III., his illness in 1788, 3;
        his recovery, 6;
        thanksgiving, goes to St. Paul's, 7;
        stone thrown at his coach, 10;
        message to Parliament declaring war with France, 18;
        inspects the guards, 20;
        shot at and hissed, 29;
        stone thrown into his carriage, 33;
        asked to dismiss his Ministry, 41;
        gives £20,000 as patriotic subscription, 44;
        reviews volunteers in Hyde Park, 48;
        inspects volunteers, 49;
        receives a letter from Napoleon, 50;
        eats brown bread, 147;
        at the theatre, 193;
        lets his cream coloured horses for hire, 295, 296

      Gibbon, death of, 230

      Giornovici, musical composer, 196

      Gloucester, Duchess of, 106

      Gloucester, Duke of, 2-29, 220, 256

      Gloves, stamps on, 300

      Gluttonous wager, 335

      Gooseberries, curious, 344

      Gordon, Lady Georgiana, 76

      Gordon, Lord George, 1

      Government appointments, sale of, 117, 118, 119

      Grenville, Lord, 42, 50

      Grey, Charles Earl, 27, 34

      Grey, Mr., M.P., epigram on, 285

      Grosvenor, Lord, 185

      Guadagni, vocalist, 221

      Guildford, Earl of, 24

      Guildhall dinner, ticket for, 335

      Guimard, Mdlle., ballet dancer, 211

      Gypsies at Norwood, 332


      H

      Hair, false, 73, 74

      Hair-powder, 60, 61, 73, 128, 129, 130

      Halfpence, bad, 239, 240

      Hamilton, Duke of, 152

      Hampden, Lord, 172

      Handbill, curious, 300

      Hanway, Jonas, 56

      Hardy, Thomas, 23

      Harrington, Lady, 33

      Harrison, the vocalist, 196

      Harvest, bad, 27, 28

      Hastings, Warren, his trial, 2

      Hats, stamp on, 270

      Hats, subscription for, 131

      Hectors, 54

      Highway robberies, 262

      Hill, Sir Rowland, 21

      Hobart, Mrs., 169, 171, 194

      Hogs, number of, 147

      Holland, French occupation of, 26;
        English defeat, 27

      Holman, the actor, 189

      Hood, Sir Alexander, 26

      Horses, the royal cream coloured, 295, 296, 337

      Horse racing, 184, 185

      Howe, Lord, 25-26-38, 39, 310, 311

      Humbert, General, 45, 46

      Hyde Park, 308


      I

      Ice, 321

      Illuminations, 310, 311

      Incledon, the singer, 188, 206

      Impromptu, an, 300

      Income tax, 132

      Informer, common, punishment of a, 271, 272

      Inoculation for small-pox, 338, 339

      Inspection of volunteers, 49

      Insurance against being drawn for militia, 112

      Invasion of England, 40, 41

      Ireland, French invasion of, 45, 46

      Ireland, rebellion in, 44, 46

      Ireland, union with England, 47

      Ireland, Sam., 202

      Ireland, W. H., 202, 203


      J

      Jackson, W., musical composer, 207, 208

      Jenner, Dr., 338

      Jersey, Lady, anecdote of, 320

      Jervis, Sir John (Lord St. Vincent), 41

      Jessamy, a, 54

      Job-masters, knavery of, 158

      Johnson, Dr. S., 230

      Johnstone, the actor, 189

      Jordan, Mrs., 189, 191, 192, 193, 197, 216

      Joyce, Rev. Jeremiah, 23

      June, glorious first of, 25, 310, 311


      K

      Kean, Edmund, 189

      Kelly, the vocalist, 196, 199, 206, 207

      Kelsey's, 108

      Kemble, John, 187, 191, 196, 203

      Kensington Gardens, 307, 308

      Kenyon, Lord, 34, 178, 179

      Ketch, Jack, 266

      Kidnapping for the army, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106

      Killala, landing of French at, 45


      L

      Lade, Lady, 314

      Lade, Sir John, his wager with Lord Cholmondeley, 320

      "Lady's Monthly Museum," 68

      Lake, Lord, 45

      Lashes, one thousand given, 111

      Law and police, 243

      Lawsuit, a long, 270

      Lawyers, number of, 271

      Le Brun, 50

      Lemons, price of, 154

      Letters, franking, 121, 122, 123;
        rates for, 123

      Letters of marque, 19

      Lewis, the actor, 190

      Linley, Thos., musical composer, 207, 208

      Litchfield, Bishop of, 43

      Livery Servants, petition from, 316

      Lloyd's, 26

      Loan, 42;
        subscriptions to, 43

      London, port of, commerce of, 321

      Longevity, 309, 322, 332

      Lorn, Marquis of, 60

      Lotteries, 178, 184

      Lotteries, private, 182, 183

      Lough Swilly, defeat of the French off, 46

      Louis XVI., 17

      Loyalty loan, 36

      Lucifer matches, 297

      Ludgate Prison, 266, 267

      Lunatics, treatment of, 298

      Luttrell, Lady Elizabeth, 179

      Luxembourg, Duke of, 305


      M

      Macaroni, the, 53, 274

      Macdonald, John, 55

      Macklin, the actor, 188

      Mackworth, Sir Robert, 59

      Malmesbury, Lord, 35, 42, 293, 294

      Mansion House, riot at the, 308, 309

      Mara, Mdlle., vocalist, 204, 206, 209

      March, Lord, 64

      Margate, 65;
        a day at, 323;
        crowded state of, 335

      Marlborough, Duchess of, 191, 223

      Marlborough, Duke of, 43

      Marston, Mr., his bet, 185

      Martyr, Mrs., the actress, 190

      Masquerades, 215, 223

      Matrimonial advertisements, 301, 302, 303, 304

      Matrimonial Magazine, the, 303

      Meat, high price of, 152

      Mechanic Theatre, 228

      Medicinal waters, 317

      Menageries, 309, 310

      Mendoza, the prize fighter, 274

      Men's dress, 50

      Merveilleux, the, 57

      Milford, Lord, 40

      Militia, 97, 111, 112

      Millerd, vocalist, 209

      Milton Gallery (H. Fuseli's), 227, 228

      Mohocks, 54

      Moira, Lord, 278

      Monetary, 232 _et seq._

      Money and jewels, great find of, 315, 316

      "Monster, the," 247 to 261

      Montague, Mrs., the chimney sweeps' friend, 341, 342

      Moritz, Peter, 186

      Mount Edgcumbe, Lady, 177

      Munden, the actor, 189

      Muns, 54

      Musical composers, 207

      Mutiny in the navy, 37, 38, 39, 40, 85, 86

      Mutton, price of, 151, 153


      N

      Napoleon I., 42, 47, 50

      "Natural History," 301

      Navy, ships commissioned, 8;
        pressing for, 8, 9, 10, 19, 83, 84, 85;
        bounty for sailors, 20;
        strength of, 36;
        mutiny in, 37, 38, 39, 40;
        victory off Cape St. Vincent, 41;
        victory off Camperdown, 42;
        defeat of French off Lough Swilly, 46;
        battle of the Nile, 46;
        treatment of seamen, 80;
        pressgang described by Smollet, 81;
        mutiny on board the Culloden, 85, 86;
        recruiting for, 86, 87;
        prize money, 87, 88;
        parishes raise men, 89, 90;
        mutilation to avoid service, 90, 91;
        a female sailor, 94

      Needlework, curious, 228

      Negro, elopement with, 268

      Newgate, number of prisoners therein, 247;
        dancing party therein, 250

      Newland, Abraham, 36

      Newspapers, hire of, forbidden, 133

      New South Wales, colonization of, 1

      Nile, battle of the, 46

      Norfolk, Duke of, his dislike to water, 305

      Northumberland, Duchess of, 129

      Norwood, Gypsies at, 332

      Novels, 231


      O

      Oats, bruising of, 143

      Officers in the army, youth of, 107, 108

      Opera, loud talking at, 211

      Opera and Ballet, 204

      Opium, taking, 331

      Orange, Prince of, 26

      Orrery, sale of Lord Bute's, 304

      Oxford (city of), 43;
        University print book for benefit of French clergy, 328


      P

      Paget, Hon. Mr., 60, 61

      Palmer, the actor, 191

      Pantheon Theatre, 212, 215, 221

      Parishes raise men for the navy, 89, 90

      Parisot, Mdlle., ballet dancer, 212, 213

      Parker, Rd. (mutineer), 40

      Pasley, Admiral, 26

      Pastry, disuse of, 138, 139

      Patriotic gifts, 42, 43

      Paul's, St., procession to, 336

      Pavement, bad, 165, 166

      Pawnbrokers rates, 133, 134

      Peace, rumour of, 32;
        debate on, 34;
        negotiations for, 35;
        failure of, 36;
        negotiations for, 42

      Peas, price of green, 153, 154, 322

      Peel, Mr., 43

      Penance, a butcher doing, 331

      Penny Post, 21, 119, 120

      Peterson, Lieut. (shot by Lord Camelford), 92

      Phillips, Capt., first Governor of New South Wales, 1

      Pidcock's Menagerie, 309

      Pillory, curious case, 247

      Piozzi, Mrs., 230

      Pitt, William, 5, 6, 13, 27, 32, 34, 36, 37, 41, 84, 88,
        105, 131, 132, 233, 234, 287

      Pluralists, 335

      Police and law, 243

      Politics, 280 to 292

      Poor, rules for the, 145

      Pope, the actor, 189, 190

      Pope, Mrs., the actress, 188, 190

      Popham, Captain, 93, 94

      Portland, Duke of, 29, 30, 33, 40, 45, 131

      Portland estate, value of, 321

      Posting, 158

      Post Office, franking letters, 121, 122, 123;
        rates for letters, 123;
        uniform for men, 124

      Potatoes, bounty for growing, 135;
        price of, 151

      Poultry, scarcity of, 138

      Pressing for the navy, 8, 9, 10, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85

      Pretender, (Prince Charles Edward), death of, 3

      Priestley, Dr., 287

      Princesses, the Royal, 295

      Prisoners of war in France, 109, 110

      Prize fighters, list of, 274

      Prize fighting, 273, 274

      Prize money, 87, 88

      Procession, Royal, to St. Paul's, 336

      Promethean fire and phosphorus, 297

      Provisions, price of, 136;
        suggestions for economy, 142

      Public Houses, 134, 135

      Publicans and pint pots, 327;
        and "showmen," 336

      Puff, a, 341

      Pulteney, Miss, coming of age, 297


      Q

      Queensberry, Duke of, 60, 185

      Quick, the actor, 171, 188


      R

      Rain beau, a, 57

      Ramsgate, 325

      Rat's letter, the, 339

      Regrating, 150, 153

      Reinagle, P., 227

      Resurrection men, 262, 263, 264, 265

      Review of Volunteers in Hyde Park, 48

      Rich, rules for the, 144

      "Ride, a delightful," 159

      Riding lessons, price of, 157

      Road, the, and streets, 157

      Robinson, Mrs., the actress, 192

      Rose, Miss, ballet dancer, 212, 213, 214

      Ross, the hairdresser, 65

      Roulette, 173

      Royal family, domesticity of, 295

      "Royal George," loss of, 80

      Royalty, 293, 294, 295, 296

      Russell, Lord W., 61

      Russia, Emperor of, 93, 94

      Ryder, the actor, 188


      S

      Sacrilege, 330

      St. George's Fields, kidnapping riots at, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106

      St. Jean d'Acre, 47

      St. Paul's clock strikes wrongly, 318

      St. Vincent Cape, victory off, 41

      Sale of Government appointments, 117, 118, 119

      Scarborough, Earl of, 54

      Scourers, 54

      Sea Kale, 154

      Sedition, see Politics

      September 14th (commencement of partridge shooting), 333

      Servants, fees to, 160

      Servants wages, &c., 115, 116, 117

      Seven shilling pieces, issue of, 239

      Sheep (Dishley), price of, 299

      "Shepherds, I have lost my waist," 72

      Sheridan, Richard Brinsley, 17, 196, 202, 207

      Shield, W., musical composer, 207

      Shillings, bad, 240, 241, 242

      Shopmen, manners of, 314

      Siddons, Mrs., 189, 191, 196

      Silver, scarcity of, 235, 236, 237

      Skeffington, Mr., 59

      Slave trade, abolition of, 11, 12, 20, 27

      Smart, a, 55

      Smock Race, a, 322

      Social Economy, 114

      "Society, The," 218

      Sorocold, the engineer, 186

      Soup, consumption of, 136

      Spas, 317

      Spencer, a, 63, 64

      Spencer, Earl, 63

      Sportswoman, a, 344

      Spring guns set in a garden, 299

      Stage coaches, 163

      Stage wagon, 159

      Stanhope, Earl, 23-26

      Stationers Company, dinner at the, 146

      Statue of George III. at Pall Mall, 49

      Storacé, S., musical composer, 207, 208

      Storacé, Signora, the vocalist, 196, 197, 205

      Storm, destructive, 32

      Story, a "tall," 301

      Strathmore, Earl of, 185

      Sturt, Mrs., 167, 169, 172, 179

      Suett, Rd., 187, 199

      Sussex, Duke of, 225


      T

      Talbot, Miss, (the female sailor), 94

      Talleyrand, 50

      Telegraph, the, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128

      Thames, embankment, 327;
        tunnel under, 340

      Thames frozen, 4, 266

      Thanksgiving for the king's recovery from illness, 7

      Theatre, the, 187

      Theatres, private, 201

      Thelwall, John, 23

      Thrale, Mrs., 230

      Thurlow, Lord, 2, 6, 30, 196

      Titiretus, 54

      Tooke, Rev. John Horne, 23

      Topaz, a cheap, 298

      Townsend, (Bow street runner), 196, 245

      Trinity Square first named, 340

      Tunnel under the Thames, 340

      Twopenny pieces, issue of, 239

      Tythes, story respecting, 319


      U

      Umbrellas, 55

      University, choice of a, 338


      V

      Vaccination, 338

      Varieties, 297 to end

      Villiers, Lord, 61

      Vinegar Hill, battle of, 45

      Volunteers, 24, 48, 49, 95, 96, 98, 113

      Vortigern and Rowena, 202


      W

      Wake, Kidd, 32, 33

      Wales, Prince of, 2, 5-7, 33, 51, 169, 194, 196,
        209, 215, 216, 274, 293, 294, 295, 296

      Wales, Princess of, 76, 293, 294, 295, 314

      Waltz, the, 321

      Warren, Sir John Borlase, 46

      Watchmen, 243, 244

      Waters, medicinal, 317

      Water wheels at London Bridge, 185, 186

      Wells, Mrs., the actress, 190

      Westmoreland, Lord, 30, 31

      Wheat, bounty on, 28;
        cheapness of, 34;
        scarcity of, 135;
        rise in price, 138

      Whist, 180

      Whitbread, Samuel, 24

      Wife selling, 342, 343

      Wilberforce, William, 11, 12, 20, 27

      Wilkes, John, 311

      Williams, Renwick (the Monster), 247 to 261

      Willis, Dr., 4, 61

      Willis's Rooms, 224

      Willoughby de Broke, Lord, 60

      Windsor uniform, 64

      Wines, price of, 155

      Women's dress, 69

      Worcester, Marquis of, 125

      Wormholt Scrubs, nuisance on, 330


      X Y Z

      Yanievitz, the actor, 198

      York, Cardinal, 3

      York, Duchess of, 70, 295

      York, Duke of, 2, 6, 20, 107, 256, 277, 295


THE END.


  PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE HANSON AND CO.
  EDINBURGH AND LONDON.


[Transcriber's note: Only obvious printer's errors have been
corrected. The author's spelling has been maintained and
inconsistencies have not been standardised.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OLD TIMES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
